---
title: bring_your_authentic_self_to_work_&_UI_vs_UX
blog: podcast
published: true
date: 2019-02-08 14:35:51
duration: 00:23:12
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/bring_your_authentic_self_to_work_and_ui_vs_ux.mp3
---
<div class='row'><audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/bring_your_authentic_self_to_work_and_ui_vs_ux.mp3' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio></div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (for my own sanity. I prefer to actually bring my work self toe work and not my authentic self. Just as a precautionary measure to protect myself because my authentic self in work Welcome back to lost in the source. I am your host Malala. You can follow us on Twitter at Lost in the Source. Please do like subscribe share Retweet if you like this episode if you like the podcast, then tell your friends about it. Thank you for everyone who has been supporting on the twitters on on the Interwebs. Thank you for everyone as well. Who's just, like offered really, really nice messages about me stopping blackguard tech. We've got some really nice messages Tarts her account at Black Girl Tech on DH. Yeah, it's because it has just been nice to like see the support. So today, today I'm going to be talking about bringing your authentic self to work who is allowed to bring those that lent itself to work what it even means home. And then in the source, I'll be talking about the difference between you I and you expose it to popular bits of jargon this used in the industry and I think sometimes they used interchangeably and they're not the same thing s o we looking at what specifically they are on what makes them different. So, yeah, let's get into it. So authentic self, right? There is this kind of notion, um that, you know, because you spend a lot of time at work on because work is just, like, all consuming, really right that the people you work with kind of become like a second family. And this this whole thing about family, which I have thoughts about, but I won't go into them in this podcast just yet. But this whole thing about family also brings along with it authenticity. And you know the idea that work should be a place where you can be you. You can be yourself. You don't have to put up any gods. You don't have to pretend you don't have tio, you know, be fake. But I would even call it fake it. You just don't have to be put energy into, you know, being something that you are no authentically, Um and I think it's a very interesting concept. I've worked in predominantly white spaces, and so for me, I have always been in the code switching mindset. I have never bought my authentic self to work. And I have never felt comfortable to bring my authentic self to work. I have Teo so Bill context I, um Nigerian and I was raised in South London, Um which is as black as London gets. Really? So I mean, the way I was raised in south London went to notorious school shot Kingsdale on. Do you know, like on the lowest off keys I'm from ends? I'm not like a road person wrote person, Look at me trying to be like gender neutral. I'm not like a Roman. I was never involved in gangs or anything like mad like that. But you have friends who are, you know, part of that world, and you know, people who are into that stuff, and it's just normal. Um, and so like the way I speak to my friends that I grew up with that I went to secondary school with is not the way that I speak to friends. I may have met office secondary school in my adult life for friends or people that I know at work, right? So already you kind of, you know, I have this way of presenting yourself to different people in different ways, and it's not fake. It's just if communication is about being understood and, you know, wanting to understand, you present yourself in the best way to be understood. Nobody wants to be misunderstood. And so the way that I am, as I said with my friends growing up, is completely different to the way that I am with maybe friends. I'm in adulthood or people I met at work, right? And my friends that I know from, like, secondary school or even church, because there's a little bit of crossover there. But the friends I know from that do not see me as I don't know. I don't know how they'll see me, but they see me not the same way as people from work would see me around. So I think in general there's this thing about presents into different Selves. Now, for some reason, there's also think of like if you have to present a different self, then it's inauthentic on. I don't know where that came from. I know that as a black woman in the tech industry, in predominately white space. I do have to put energy more so than when I'm presenting different other versions of myself. I do have to put more energy into print into presenting a self that is non threatening. That is non non aggressive because you know you don't want to be the person the labelled as the black, the angry black person or the angry black woman in particular. Red. So you put on this kind of itself. That's, you know, understanding. And you try your best not to raise your voice and not to get angry even if you have every single right to you. Try your best to be like super understanding, even in the face ofthe racism and sexism and all these other ridiculous things. And I wonder if some quote unquote um, well, you know, well meaning people. I have looked at the ways that minorities have to kind of make themselves more palpable to saving the world, and we make themselves more palatable. Teo white men and for large, part white women and have said, Okay, you know, we should champion this. Bring your authentic self toe work thing now for me, bringing my authentic self to work. It's just more effort than necessary. I have work stuff on my work. Self is, you know, friendly, cordial, very nice. And that's no real different than my regular self. I think I'm just nice in that way, in general, friendly in that way in general. But I definitely have to be more careful and just more vigilant about certain things and pick up certain nuances that I don't think other people have to on DH. If I bring my authentic self toe work and you know I can't let those guards down, I miss certain cues that can be dangerous for me. That can be, you know, if I can pick up someone subtle racism because I'm more alert to it or someone subtle sexism because I'm more alert to it because I'm at work and I'm in that mind frame on DH. I can either adjust my behaviours to make myself more power portable and, to be honest, like that's just the reality of it. Like when you clock someone is moving a bit funny. You know, you adjust yourself and you may take it to senior management. But if all of senior management looks exactly the same than I've learned I have. All of senior management looks exactly the same on there's little diversity. Then the chances of you being heard are very, very slim. There is, yeah, the chance of you being heard over race limb. So, like, I try to avoid situations where I have to go to senior management for anything. Right on DH. So for me, bring my authentic self toe look means letting my guard down. Letting my guard down means not being as attuned to certain things that happen. Um, and just not being as aware because I trust everyone. And I'm just going to be very frank and say I don't trust people in general on especially people I work with, because in most work environments, people have a very you know, they have motives. They they want to climb up the career ladder or, you know, they wantto become the next you know, Jeff Bezos or whatever. So they have motives. They have things that are leading them and not everyone. To be fair, I have worked in environments where you know everyone is super lovely. What I've worked in a environment, one singular environment where everyone was super lovely and everyone not everyone but the culture of the environment proved me wrong where I didn't feel like I had to be always my work self, but I still was my work self. So yeah, everyone has motive, so I'm not immediately going to trust. That's not to say that I'm out here like, you know, trying to see who's out to get me. No, I'm not trying to see that, but I am just more attune. More students more just got my ears to the street kind of thing, you know? I mean, like, just tryingto make sure that I don't suffer. Are you sent to you? That's what it comes down to you like me trying to make sure that my work life is as easy going on as stress free as possible. Like, I don't mind stresses that come with the job. So things like I'm trying to fix a bug and I just can't figure out. And I'm getting stressed about that. Stress is about me and deadlines. I really don't mind that stuff, but stress is about what people I'm working with. Think of me or, you know, if I'm working with someone who is prejudiced in whatever way, like that kind of stress. I like to just mitigate that as, like, much as possible. And that means bringing my work self to work on. Not my quote unquote authentic self. Not the me. I am just in general just then. Life on Daz, I said, Like we have different versions ofthe ourselves, right? Like we don't always who you are to our parents is not who yard Teo, our friends or who we are to our grandparents or who we are our acquaintances. We bring different versions of ourselves, and I think that's fine. That's what makes us human when not when I've been seen the same way by the same people. Someone can know you today on DH. Learn something new about you in a week and they see you in a completely different light, and I think that's fine. But I also think that this whole bring authentic self toe work thing is exclusionary in a lot of ways. Even if we forget about race, forget about gender. Forget about sexuality. Able bodied nous right? Forget about that quote unquote heavy stuff, and we look at something as simple as introversion and extra version. If you are in an environment in a work environment where everyone is extra vert, being an introvert can be used to penalise you. If the culture off the work setting is such that, you know, everyone goes out for drinks off the work. Everyone meets up on the weekends and, you know, has little social gatherings outside of work. And that's not your jam. Like you'll be seen as anti social. You'll be seen as not really trying to be a part off the team on DH. That's something simple, extra vision and introversion on. All of a sudden, the introvert is being penalised for being their authentic introvert itself. The introvert now has to put in extra work to be like the extroverts, and that's exhausting for the introvert that is tiring for the introvert, right, because that's not how it's not. The introverts don't like social gatherings. It's just that's not how they get their energy. And if you've been working with someone all day, too, then, you know, go to the pub after or good to the club after work is a lot like you just want take a breather, takes MySpace get some time to yourself, You know, before you have to come back the next day and do all over again, right? And so no work. And I am aware. So sure, like having a social life is integral to the work dynamics, the relationships you build at work all of a sudden, the introverts and antisocial person. And you know, they'll get reviews. And I'm speaking from experience off myself and others. You know, you get reviews off, you're not really trying to be a part of the team. And we don't know how much you really care about the work that we're doing, you know, and all of this kind of stuff are one of the best place is the only good place I've worked actually catered for people off a ll different kinds of like where there's introvert, extrovert, whatever. And I think that's why this problem is an exclusion is important. You can't tout, bring authentic self to work. If your work environment is an inclusion in erry, that doesn't sound right in English. If your work environment is inclusive, thats is the word. I actually did an English degree on DH almost every day. I'm just like where did this go? Because I talk sometimes like English is not my first language anyway. And so if your work environment is not inclusive, you can't really tap the whole Brinker authentic softer work thing. Because, I mean, I'm not going to be able. Teo, my authentic self is a welcome in this space. My authentic self is excluded in this space just by virtue of how you run your space. And so, in the case of the introvert extrovert, the introvert is automatically excluded because everything you do is around like every kind of extracurricular activities around being an extroverted person and caters more towards extroverts. So really and truly, it's the people who are allowed to bring the authentic self to work are the people who hold a position of power in that work environment. If you are the dominant gender, then you need to If you want you want you know, women to be able to bring the authentic self to work, you need tohave women in senior positions. You need Teo cater on be inclusive to women in the work place on different types of women that if you're you know what place is predominantly one race, and you want people to bring the authentic self toe work you need toe make your workspace more inclusive on the issue is many places are not inclusive like so many places are not inclusive. So I mean, you know, you just kind of out hair, same bring your authentic self to work and just by virtue of existing in your space, I can't do that. Um, and I'm excluded. So yeah, that's kind of how I feel about the whole bring authentic self to work thing. I don't believe in it. I think it it can't be done independently off create inclusive spaces. Andi also needs actual thought. You know, it needs actual How are we going to allow people to bring their authentic self toe work on? It's not as easy as just put in on a job description or, you know, getting some of your employees to tweet about it. Like we actually need to see visible and tangible ways that you're doing that you know, the place I worked at before usedto have quiet zones and louder zones for people who didn't mind working a noise on DH, chatting and having conversations while their work versus people who preferred not to do any of that and just wanted to, like focus get their head down in the work laptop. No disturbance. And that was fine. That works perfectly fine. And I just thought was a really good example of doing something really small that would meet different people's needs. And nobody would feel like they couldn't do work effectively because really, that's all. It boils down to being able to do the work of being paid to do effectively. So, yeah, that's it for the main topic this week, we should I'll come back with in the source. What is the difference between you and your ex? So what is the difference between you? Why and you? X? They are often used interchangeably, but they're not the same thing. However, they are very complimentary. You do once both when thinking about building a products building an application, you were building a company. To be honest, you want to think about how the user experiences your products and experiences your brand, and you want to also think about how the uniter user interacts with your products and with your brand. So let us start with you, I So you II is user interface design, and this is concerned about the look and feel off your products off your application on DH. Really, what you want to be able to do is kind of, you know, think about the qualities that your you want your brand to stand for on DH. Transfer that to look and feel off your products. So if your brand is like strong and powerful and luxurious, then you want the interface off the product toe. Also be strong and powerful, luxurious. You might use certain colours and shadows and, you know, animations that communicate strong luxury power. And it's basically about being able to visually guide the's A through the interface on. So you want to think about interactivity. As I said, you want to think about animation. You want to think about, you know where uses good, where their eyes are drawn to. It's all about looking, feel use. The experience is more about how your user experiences your brand. Um, I'm going to try my best to, like, really showed the eliminations off this off. Both robber. But user experience is about the development off the interaction between user Andi, all parts of the company. So it's not really just about the application, but it's about all parts of the company. Just so happens that, you know, with many tech abs like that, APP is the main part of the company. But user experience, really. You know, you're doing a lot of research. You're doing a lot of testing to see the best of ways that user can experience your company, your product. So you're prototyping. You're testing different content and all of this kind of stuff. That's all part ofthe user experience. I'm going to read something specifically that I got from a website called Career Foundry, and they do various different courses. They're not paying me for this. I'm not going to chat about him too much, but you can take them if you want to. I don't know about the quality of the courses that, like I've never used them anyway. So user experience so use experience. Design is, in theory a non digital practise but used and to find predominantly by digital industries. So it's not necessarily the coding on DH like thinking about the digital stuff, but it is used by tech companies predominant me, but you are thinking, as I said across the whole company, whereas user interface, I don't I said. Like that user interface design is a digital field which includes responsibility for cooperation and work with developers or code. So user interface design is the digital manifestation. Off use experiences. One aspect, you know, off the EU's experience being made physical Inouye by either work of developers or code or whatever. I hope that made sense. Honestly, I hope that made sense, as I keep saying like, I don't know a lot of this stuff. So I go on, try and share it in a way that makes sense. So that is the end off this week's episode. Don't forget to follow us on Twitter at Lost in the Source. Don't forget to like share. Subscribe on soundcloud at Lost in the sores on Apple. Put cars lost in the source on spotify Lost in the source or we are everywhere on def. We're not somewhere that you normally listen to Just hit me up on I will guess there. See you next week. Bye.)
