---
title: DIY_motivation
blog: podcast
published: true
date: 2017-04-17 15:57:13
duration: 00:21:28
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/DIY_motivation.mp3
---
<div class="row">
<audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/DIY_motivation.mp3' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio>
</div>
Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (I'm comfortable with myself and who I am and that person does not go to the gym. Hello. Hello. Hello and welcome back to the lost in source podcast. I'm your host Lalla on and we are back at it. People, It's April. It's spring. The sun is out. I'm feeling really, really good. I'm not sure what number broadcast this is because I've lost track. But while guests there's wear number five number six, I don't know, but here we are on DH today, we're going to be talking about independent coding or, you know, codings love languages. How do we love coding by ourself? How does could and wants to be loved how this programming and engineering wants to be loved. Yeah. How'd you could buy us? Often Enjoy it on DH. Stay motivated on. Before I get into that. I just want to say that all these tips are going to help. But ultimately there will come a point where you will not be able to do this alone anymore on DH. That's okay. You shouldn't do this alone for too long. Coding is a community sport. If that makes sense, it's like something you do together with other people because it gets hard. Sometimes you need that support work, that support system to help you through on DH. That's perfectly OK. However, these tips I'm going to give you are going to help you before you get to that point. So let's get into it. The first thing is discipline. Discipline is probably the most important thing on DH. Something you know everyone struggles with. And you're probably going to keep learning until the day you die. Because you know who has self discipline, right? But it is super super important, Especially when you're doing this alone. I do not have an ounce. What? No, let me be. Let me be Ro. I'm disciplined. We're certain things. But most things I am not disciplined with Like, you know, I've tried the whole gym ing thing. Everyone's like into gyms and fitness and all of that stuff right now. And, you know, I tried it and it's not for me. I've tried twice now and I felt both times and I'm okay with that because I know myself on. I'm comfortable with myself and who I am, and that person does not go to the gym. Hey, but I just don't have the discipline for it. So if you don't have the discipline for something, it's just really not gonna work out. And I mean, I don't feel like I have to say that, because people usually know that right? But when it comes to coding, it's easy. Tio No have the discipline because code in his heart on DH. So it's easy when you hit a roadblock to kind of art and get it and just, like, leave her alone or it's easy to miss a day and then you know, not come back because you know that coming back means that you're dealing with something that's difficult on Dino is something that you don't quite get. You don't wanna encountered those those negative feelings. What does a negative but those difficult, challenging feelings again and again and again. So it's easy to give up, and it's easy Tio not continue, not pursue, no stay motivated because of those things. But ultimately you have to be very, very strict with yourself on. That might contradict some things I'm going to say later run, but you have to be strict with yourself. You have to say to yourself. I'm going to do it. And there are ways you can do that in a healthy, productive way. That's like not obsessive. And don't confuse discipline with obsession. Don't think that just because you know your trying to emerge like you're never going to really be able to immerse us often it the way somebody who has, you know, four years to learn how to do this thing is going to be able to immerse themselves. You're not gonna be able to do that, so just don't try. But what you can do is be forgiving off yourself if you miss a day, but still tell yourself, I'm I've missed a day. That's fine. But I'm still going to go on and I'll go a little bit more in depth later on. But basically, don't be obsessive about it. But do be disciplined. Um, a good way to make the discipline easier on yourself is to be creative with the way that you know. So when I first started phone has a code, I wass on code academy, and then I was on YouTube before I went into boot camp. I was like, before I went to my boot camp. I was doing this by myself for about six months. I didn't know about any meet ups, and I didn't know about any like online forums and stuff like that. I learned about all that stuff soon, my beauchamp. So it was teaching me Google YouTube on DH co academy. No, What that meant is that I was I was also using Dream Weaver at the time, which is a website building software by Adobe. But what that meant by the time is that I was learning through different avenues all the time, which kept it fun and kept me on my feet. So if those one bit that was particularly struggling with, I would just like, leave that for a minute and go to another bit. That was a little bit lighter. I kind of got a little bit more no necessary visiting things I had already, lad. But you know, either go to YouTube, rejoin like, sit down with it and watch it and learn a bit of stuff. Or, like do some Google searches about things. I had questions off while I was learning. Why was I find interesting, difficult and et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Basically switching up how I learned and switching up how I took in information, just kept things in a nice kind of waited. It wasn't monitored, it wasn't boring. I didn't get water, and I also I get bored of things quite easily. So it was just important for me that I kept things moving in that respect. In that regard, No, that helps a discipline because it means things are always going to be as funny. She maketh, um, coding isn't always fun on. So you need to, like, have ways off. Keeping yourself not lesser entertained by engaged with the content with the way is that you're learning. So definitely switch things up. Definitely Chinese ways of learning Read eBooks, YouTube videos, podcasts If you like what you could do to help your own learning and to cement the things that you're learning right about the stuff you couldn't keep a block document your journey, which is actually a really, really good away off showing yourself the progress that you've over that you've made so far and also showing other people your progress sharing your journey of the rod. And even if you keep that blood private forever, right is you're sharing a journey of yourself. You, Khun, track where you come from, where you've been like a history record off learning to code for yourself, right? So that's that all plays a part when you're developer as a defender. Par. So this is a slight tension, right? But as a divine apart and now off your job is is no at the computer writing code like some of your job is on the soft skills, such as known how to write, communicate properly or, you know, telling storeys because ultimately you're gonna have to know how to tell storeys through your curd there'll be user journeys that you're going tohave toe, you know, build and code for you know, there's other things technical writing, which is not as difficult as it sounds. You know, just other things are skills that I have learned through, you know, English literature through the fact that I I'm a public speaker, etcetera such access would that have helped me so much day to day in my regular job. So don't you know, pass off like blogging and, you know, documenting things or like podcasts and et cetera, as just a side thing. It all feeds back into it. And fair enough you're not actually learning how to you like build this up. But it's a good way off going over things in your head and thinking things through. I love the time. Listen, even just thinking about the code that your building is a way of learning, like I have debugged and fixed so many programmes at light I don't know midnight in my bed just before I drop asleep because I'm thinking about it and I'm like, Okay, but what went wrong? How did it go wrong? And I'm visualising the code and it's helping me understand what it was I was coding under more. So when I come in the mornings, I sit on, I usually have the fix before I sleep, and then I wake up and try not to forget it and next. But yet he sent shooting continually. Thinking about is another way that you can learn and switch things up. So yeah, also having projects side projects. Now, don't be daunted. It doesn't need to be done to build a Facebook or Twitter. You don't need to build a whole house literally or you need to do is build like the wheel off a chair, you know, like something small, something minor. It doesn't have to be something that is unique or original. It can be richly build off form that people can fill in. You know, it actually doesn't have to be something huge or what The key, he is just that you are practising and you are showing rial life use cases for the thing that you're learning, you're showing yourself a lot of times. People ask me like babies asked you what is the real life, Patrick, the practicality of learning this particular concept on this particular thing? How would I use this in the real world? Well, when you start building things and having side projects, you can see the thing. The concept that you're learning applied in the real world. It's very easy for me to tell you that you know hashes are a storage system. It's a lot different when you begin to see how a hash is used in the rural world. To store data to store key value pairs off different kind of information, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, right. So having side projects helps you in showing you lowlife application off the code and the concepts that you know. And it also shows other people that you are doing something. You don't have any protection point get help. Don't have to be complete. My get hub account profile is filled with incomplete projects. I think, actually, on my profile Oh, my personal profile. I think I actually have one, maybe two complete projects out of life for tea or something ridiculous like that. So don't worry about if it's not finished, started and work towards finishing it, and I'll come to that in a minute. The next thing I think is like super dope is to have a schedule and be flexible. If your schedule do not feel like you are married or tied to your schedule, you dictate your schedule. Your schedule does not dictate you like I'm gonna copyright that tweet that. But yeah, like you know, you are in control of your schedule. You can see how much time you spend on something. You can say how little time you spend on something you can say this week, um, going on a break. And next week I'm gonna go back into the swing of things or say, Actually, I'm gonna delay my break until thiss time so that I can focus on this thing. Now you take that and it can fit around your comment lifestyle. If you have dependents, children, family members, wherever. If you, you know, work really odd hours or just working 95 become home at six. And you're knackered. You, Khun dictate when it is that you dedicate this time to code in what I will say is be careful. Do not throw your whole self into this straight away because that will overwhelm you. And that will then lesson any likelihood of you actually going into it properly again. What you need to do is be be regimented, but also be be like What's the word was the word was the word begins over our reality. Be realistic. There we go comfortably English degree. Be realistic about the time you have to commit, If that is only 10 minutes a day or a week. No, no, that is 10 minutes on. Do what you can in that seven minutes. Read a book. What? YouTube video. Understand the concept code something, Jen, I mean, in that 10 minutes, that's fine on what you can do. All those 10 minutes we're going to add up. Granted, you may need more than 10 minutes a week. Tio do this, but my point is that you need to just be be flexible with your time. So if you've got an hour week use that time can use it wisely as well. Don't just don't feel like you. You have to do X in that hour. You know, like give yourselves time and space as she learn and understand the things that is that you're learning. That's what the schedule is for. It's not for taking off a box off. Oh, yeah, I did an hour here. That's fine. Give yourself time to understand things within that schedule. That's what the definitive time is for a cake on. Finally, I think this is kind of like a weird one. Innocence heaven, goals haven't goes is important. I say it's weird because people see goes as fixed on DH as inflexible on Also, it's difficult to set a goal when you're starting now because you don't know what is realistic. You don't know if it's realistic to build Facebook in a year or if it's moving in this dick to figure out how Teo Tak how to get a programme to print the word Facebook in the year right to various two very different things. Now, what I would say is, set a goal and see how it goes. So if you say, you know, I'm going to learn all of this Coke addict because in a month that's fine. But be flexible yourself again, you need to be flexible of yourself. Maybe you're gonna actually do more than that Coke Academy course in a month, and that's fine. We conduce, set multiple calls, multiple deadlines. That's okay. All you find that it takes you longer than a month Teo to go through this co Academy track, and that's also fine, too. But you need to be realistic and honest of yourself. And if you find that your goals are not reflective of your reality, you can change them. You are in control of changing them. So do that. Just change it and we'll be fine. The last thing I said, of course, was the last name. But actually, the last thing I wanted to touch is how you, you know, get back into the swing of things when seeing when you've, like, lagged a bit. So when I first thought and I know that a lot of the time I would like four laugh and then we really difficult to like get back in on DH. That's essentially why I joined a boot camp. To be honest, that didn't fix it that didn't like essentially it helped, but I didn't fix it. And the only thing I can say to that is you just have to bite the bullet. There's no special remedy. There's no special thing, let you just have to do it. And you just have to do it a few times. If that makes sense, so you have toe just go into, and you may want to ease yourself back into it. So you may wanna read over code that you've already written and see. Remind yourself of where you stopped where you started. I would just come back from holiday. I was gone for a week on. Just come back into work this week on I forgot. I'm not gonna lie to you. I've got a lot off what I was doing the week before, and even that commands my command line like I'm snow. What's that command again? Likely just forgotten things. So, you know, you might want to ease yourself back into remind yourself of what you are learning before. Remind yourself of the things that you already know that still using your time wisely. That's using your brain wisely. That's the learning things that is you need to learn properly. Write another thing you might want to do is what is switch things up. Go back to the wild saying about creative learning You might wantto What a video, Teo Easy back in. Or you might wanna read a book. Teo, easy back and listen to a podcast. Easy back in. You might wanna start, But when abandoned the project you're working on this down a hole, you project. That's okay. There's no harm in there. When I was learning how to code the projects that motivated me was a website. I wanted to build a website for myself to showcase my writing, and that's what kept me going. Now, as I began to learn, especially Ruby, I didn't know how to build a website in Ruby and at the time, because I'll still learn and re B, but why didn't start too good over us and hates him now. So I never really was giving me issues or I fell off of Ruby out. Start back. I hated him again. Like, just, you know, change the background colour or something. I added a new element or change something up. Basically, you want to just get your mind back into the swing off coding on back into the like, you know, routine and how coding works your brain like coding. You need to like, understand it in a certain way. You just want to get your mind back into that space. So however, whatever it takes to get your mind back into that space, do it like there's nothing else I can say, except for just do it shot like shower. Shana Boof. So, yeah, I think that wraps up for this episode. Before I go. We've got some announcements. First thing is that black all tech I haven't a well shop this month. In April, you can get your tickets at B g T A p r. Code dot events brights dot com that hizb e d T. A p r. Code dot eventbrite dot com, and we're going to be going into JavaScript is an introductory to Jarvis quit. So we're going to be learning about all the cool things that Khun do for fresh, fresh beginners. You can come in if you never touch code in your life before it is only open to black girls. Women on non binary people. If you are a minor that is under 16 you need to be accompanied by an adult. The adult does not have to be a black girl, woman or number and present. The adult can be anyone, but yeah, you could get your tickets at B g t a p r code, don't you think? Bright dot com Also, black Gold Tech is also having a giveaway for Bright and Ruby, and what we want you to do is send us a tweet us at lost in the source, a woman and technology who inspires you and tell us why in 140 characters, and that's actually all you need to do. So get those teats running. We are excited to see the women that inspiring technology on we will be releasing thie. Winners surely also follow blackguard tech onto it and find out if you won. Finally. Finally. Finally, I want to know what it is. You guys want me to talk about this podcast? I've got ideas, but I also want to make sure that I'm adjusting the things that you guys actually want me to address. So what kind of things would you also want to talk about? You want me to talk about more about my experiences in the industry in a black woman here, You want me to give you more tips and tools about men and how to code and understanding code a bit more? What do you want me to do? Let me know on the way, can let me nose either by tweeting me lost in the source or emailing infer at go dot tech. Info at blackguard dot tech with the subject line lost in the source on, If you have any questions, any coding, questions and industry questions do email them to the same email address with the same subject line, or do tweet them to me at most of the source. Thanks for listening, guys. You can follow me for the US at Boston missiles on Twitter, and you can follow me on Twitter at Lolla or Della. Thanks for listening. It's been a good one. See you next time. Bye.)
