---
title: do_dream_jobs_exist
blog: podcast
published: true
date: 2016-12-11 18:58:02
duration: 00:29:18
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/do_dream_jobs_exist.mp3
---
<div class="row">
<audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/do_dream_jobs_exist.mp3' class="col-md-12">
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio>
</div>
Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (I have spent most of the last three years looking for a job, so not to sound cocky or arrogant. I just kind of feel like I've become somewhat of an expert in trying to look for a job at least. And I think I have some advice to give. I have things to say about this topic. So hello and welcome to lost in the source. I am your host Lalla on DH today, we're gonna be talking about jobs, right? Um, I spent a lot of time looking for jobs. I spent a lot of time in them. Two's. I mean, it's not been all looking. I have had jobs. I've had three jobs in the last almost two years now, which doesn't sound amazing, but I promise you like it's not as bad as it sounds. My first ever tech job that I got paid for on the like an actual payroll salaried basis was two hours away from my front door daughter door. It was two hours on DH. I would do a four hour journey on DH. I didn't work Fridays that I don't I don't want fighting because of religious reasons, so I would make up the hours in the week. So I would do 9 to 7 every day and then therefore our commute on top of them. Now, when I first started this job, it was amazing. It felt great to be paid to do something that I enjoyed doing on the journey wasn't so bad, Actually, like the journey in was always great. The views were amazing on the train and all of this kind of stuff. I didn't mind waking up early, but as the time went on, as like for micro aggressions, increased and you could kind of see the cracks and it started getting tto win term. And like it and dark early, just things started to become really exhausting, really, really exhausting. So, yeah, that was like my first job. And that job taught me a lesson. It taught me that you have to know what you're looking for in your first job. That what do you want to get out of here? Are you trying to progress in that same company? Are you looking toe work in a company that's going to give you accolades and bonuses and, like, you know, take you to the next level in terms ofthe you're going to start as a junior and you're probably going to spend five years. Then by the time you're leaving, you'll be like, Hi, mid senior level developer Or are you just looking for something to put your foot in the door? When I got that first job, I didn't know and I didn't really think about it cause also desperate. I was on jobs because announce again. And it was like, No, common that I need to be in a paying job. So I took No, no one was trying to hire me like this was after my boot camp experience and no one was trying to hire me. So I took the first job that would pay me on Pay me something decent. In hindsight, the salary was not great at all. In hindsight, the Salome was no good. They covered my transport. They covered my transport. So imagine the salary they started off me off with. It was better than I was receiving at the time, because anything is better than jobseekers elements. But in terms of in compress into the rest of the industry and for the fact that I was living in London. It wasn't a good salary on DH. Then they decided to pay for my train ticket, which is really nice of them, actually, because if I had paid for it, I'd be paying more than they were paying. And so they took the money that they're paying for the train to get out of my salary, which decreased my salary by five K. My train ticket was about £500 a month, said that was a killer as well. But you need to think about these things. At the time, I was desperate and I did it. Really, Um, consider it on. Also, there was no space or time to consider because I needed a job and I needed a job quick, right? So in my times there, I spent a lot of time. I went into the job thinking, Okay, I'm gonna get industry experience and in this job is going to give me room to grow like how we learn a whole bunch of stuff. I will be able to do things that I was trying to do alone, but because I'm in it, an environment with a team of people who know how to do these things. I'll learn quicker. That's not exactly what happened. The team I was in was quite small. Um, it was about four people, but increased the longer asked like by the time I left, it had increased a bit, not significantly on DH. It was just It was really weird. Like there was just this one developer who knew all of the code and all of the code base on it was very difficult trying to extract things from him because he was also a CEO. So it was very difficult, like trying to pair with him because he had other things to do. But then it was a weird dynamic. But what ended up happening is that although there was another senior developer there on those a midlevel develop it there, but she was working on something else. Know any off the real projects I was working on? Um, I didn't really learn much in terms of coding in terms of I can take this away. What I did learn. Actually, no, that's not your. I did learn. I did learn stuff that I didn't know coming in. I learnt more CSS stuff, which I wasn't I wasn't that good at CSS when I first started. By the time I left, I was a lot more confident with that beach drop in CSS like plain old CSS and SSS and like front like front end aesthetic see things, another bird job scripts and J query stuff. But in terms of like Ruby Rails, that kind of stuff, I didn't get that much experience, you know, And that's because they didn't trust me to do the work. And I think that's an important thing you have to watch out for in any job. Actually, not just your first job. Do they trust you to do what they're paying you to do? And if they don't, what are you doing? Why there and why they're paying you to do this? Because essentially they are wasting money, although it's to your benefit because you're still getting money. But your is also to your loss because you're not learning and, you know, growing. So what are you gaining from being there on DH? That's something I had to consider when I was leaving. They were boxing me into just doing CSS and hate tml on DH bits off J query and I did a bit of ruby stuff, but it was definitely nowhere near enough on DSO when I decided to leave ads, actually, for multiple of reasons. I was very uncomfortable with the environment. There were rumours going around going around about me and like it was just off. I was the only black person in the whole company, and the company grew to about 100 or just over 100. But the time I was leaving on DH, I'd started noticing behaviours and patterns that other people didn't experience, and I had spoken to a few people. Then they were just they they could see some of the things I was talking about, and so that just kind of reassured me that Okay, Number one, I'm just It's not just me who sees this on. Also Number two. This is not healthy for me. I'm making a four hour journey every day to come and work in an environment that is not conducive to my growth in the industry or to my mental health. So I decided to leave about this time last year on DH when I was leaving, the things I I wanted from the next job was it needed to be in London definitely needed to be London, and it needed to be higher pay. Then I was currently earning. Those are the two things on DH, then the fact that I didn't want to be boxed in to just doing CSS. So the first job taught me to look, to look specifically for a job that's going that Khun growing right not necessarily grow in the company but grow developmentally like growing my skills. My score sets. So that's what I did looking for my next job on DH. I apply through jobs mainly through a mailing list called the London Would Be Users Group. And it's a mailing this for developers who code in Ruby on Live in London accepted the mailing. This is pretty large, and you've got people from all over the world on that Malian isto is really not just conducive to London, but they also have meetups once a month every first Monday of the month, and they're really cool and really supportive, and a lot of people get jobs off of there. All of the jobs I've ever had have come off there on a lot of people advertise for jobs on there, so it's really good in that respect. And you also learn a lot like people post their re be problems on there and people solve ruby problems on there. It's just a really nice community, and I think I've spoken about them before, but our rug cheque them out. But so I sent my I put my CV on our organises like, Hey, if anyone's looking for a junior developer, his things I'm looking for. Q. My second job Now this was an interest in one. I apply for a June. I applied for a full stack software. Also, that is, for those who don't are forced back is that's like the front end and the back end. So I'll be doing things that grew beyond rails and doing things that Haiti Marcy SS, which is which for me at the time was a dream job. I did enjoy CSS and I didn't draw hates him, and I did enjoy javascript at the time, but I also really, really love Ruby and really, really love rails on. Guy wanted to do everything, so I thought, Yes, a full stack developer job is the job for me. Now, if you go into a job right and you're going to apply for a re B roll Andi, you know you do. The co test on the co test is in CSS. That my friends is a red herring. I I should have known at the time. I really should have known at the time, But again, I was desperate, and I was looking for an escape route on DH. I remember I went to the interview and it was for the force that crow on on the phone. He had told me that the co test was going to be in Ruby because I asked if there was anything I needed to prepare on DH. I got there and the code test was CSS. And it was really It was like, underwhelming Lee Simple. It was too simple. Andi, I left thinking okay. I'm not really sure how that went. There were some questions. He talks to me afterwards about storage and things that that which were, like, again kind of irrelevant, but not really. It was hard to gauge by, got the job, and I thought, OK, finest itself. London, I'm a South London, are So it's easy to get to from home, higher paid by like 10 K. So that was attractive to me in time again, though it still wasn't in comparison to someone of my experience, it still was not that high for someone of my experience. But 10 came more than you're earning before. Is that a big jump? Right. So I started this job on Remember the first day on the job? I I've got there at nine o'clock the CT over. You forgot to tell me to get there at 10 o'clock. So I spent about an hour. No, not on ours. About like, half a Knauer sitting by myself at a table. No one introduced themselves to me. No one said hello. And then when? When I was when I was called over like it was like an open plan office. I was like, court over on There never is that. Oh, yeah. So you Lola, right? Didn't live there, and it was fine, but I wasn't introduced, so I was introduced to like the tech team, but I wasn't introduced to the rest of the company. The company was very, very small at the time, so it was like Everyone knew everyone in the office is open plan, as I said, and then I thought that was just you know how they do things. But as new people started coming, I realised that, like every couple of weeks, a new person be at my desk and they'll be there were being introduced to me from a different apartment and then when your new tech people came the same So I just noticed that and I was just like, Okay, cool. I didn't think much of it again, though I had expressed clearly in my interview, and this is important to note you should definitely up front in the interview, but what you're looking for. I had expressed very clearly that I was looking Teo Doom or Ruby and rails. Their whole stack was built on ruby rails, so that was that perfect on the CT. Her CTO had promised that that was the case. I wasn't shy from doing CSS. I didn't mind doing CSS and stuff like that, but I wanted to do more ruby and real stuff and he was like air show great on DH. At first I started off doing some and then again. There was just this, like, boxing in, like, Okay, you're going to do the front 10 stuff. You're going to do JavaScript stuff on. Do you know, I did say, like is, you know, I want to do more Ruby as time were going on. And then about three months in no, no, even up to three months. I started in January. By the beginning of March, I had decided that I wanted to leave. Um, I decided that. Okay, this is not a job that I'm going to stay in on. Definitely by September. I need to be in a new job with again higher pay on doing what I want to do. Um And so during that time, between March on from from that time onwards, things just started becoming more, more painfully clear. Now, the issue I had was because I wasn't getting the experience I needed. It was difficult to think. How am I going to get the job I want to get? Because I'm not getting the experience that I need. And so I decided to get mental. There is someone who when I was 1st 1st 1st looking for jobs, he wanted to hire me on because he wanted to trial a junior programme at his company. But by the time that they consolidating and talking about amongst themselves, I had already got a new job. So I went back and had been talking to him in that time doing this whole time. So I went back to Myrtle's that Hey, do you want to mentor me like once a week? We'll do. We beat will do rails just so I can get my skill up. And so that's why did you need Teo? If you're not getting everything you think you should be getting from your job, you need to look elsewhere. You need to be proactive. You need to like, go on websites. Look network again, you know, I mean, just skill up in your own time so that when you're ready to leave, when you're ready to move out, you can do that. So that's what I ended up doing. Things begat began to get worse at work. I was getting panic attacks like they put me specific. They decided to split the tech team into two on DH. Essentially, I ended up being in the front and Team I was asking colleagues if they would mention me at work. I ox to my CTO if I could like be mental and he was up for it. But it never really materialised. Like those always innit skis. There was always some kind of breakdown. Eventually I was fired. My pub. I didn't pass my probation. A week before my probation ended, I was told that I wouldn't be continuing on the reasons they gave who are unjustified. Um, but because I've been there search for such a short time, there's nothing legally I could do about him so that them that was the the last week in June. Andi, I just got back from my birthday holiday, like, literally two days after I got back, I got fired, which is like, fun, obviously. So last week in June on I'm kind of like, OK, what am I going to do at this point? I'm really fed up with the tech industry because it feels like I'm given my all I really care about tech. I'm encouraging black women to come into this industry through black Caltech On it is treated me like garbage is treating me really badly. Andi, this is when I decided to write, Opposed, called five things to look for in a junior role on DH. This is this was this was a defined imposed on me because this is what led me, Tio, the job I'm currently in. And these are the questions that box to myself. Can the team support junior in my second job on my first job? Although the second job had a much larger team, neither jobs could support junior developer. They didn't know what it took to support a junior developer. They didn't know, really, in terms of like pear programme in what that would look like. Code reviews, Um, how to give critical feedback to the junior. Also, how to devote time, you know, I mean, just like in terms ofthe making sure the junior developer understands what's going on and just all round support growing them, helping them, and not necessary answered all their questions. But given them the right resource is in the right tools or pointing them in the right direction. Things like that. Both jobs didn't have that, Andi. I think it could have been because both jobs were like profit seeking companies in terms ofthe they were like consumer led, so they had customers. In that kind of environment, you're always chasing the profit, and sometimes that means you're getting things done at crunch time and all of this, and you may just not have the time. So can the team support junior developer? It's important to manage your expectations. Be clear from the onset about what you expect in the Rock and make sure you understand what they expect from you as well. Because any confusion miscommunication about that could just lead to disappointment all around they. You may not be what they thought they were getting. They may not be what you feel you are getting, so it's important to manage your expectations. Think about your personal growth and development. What do you want to get out? This job already said Back this already, but it's really about what you want to get. Do they have time or room to experiment of new technologies? Are you allowed to use a percentage of your time to study or learn new things? A lot of tech companies dedicate 10 to 20% off time for personal projects and personal development, So think about these kind of things. When you're looking like personal development, how can you grow in terms of your skill set in terms of your career development and progression? What can you get from this continuous improvement as well? Like how do they handle mistakes? Ask ask companies. They will ask you like you know. How do you have a mistake? Was the worst mistake. You you've made on a job and how did you solve it? Ask them two. What their mistake and what their processes for these things like, Where do you go? Something goes wrong. Is there space tow, revisit mistakes and, like look back on them and forget how to learn and move forward from them. Do they have a hate our department having a hate? Our department's really important, although, hey, char is for the protection of the company and not necessary. You But, for example, my second job. If there was a hey hr department, it would have been a lot easier for me. Tio actually have a claim because there would have been records off things happening in complaints and things like that, eh? So having a hatred apartment, that's all part of continuous improvement as well and growth and room for progression. This isn't like necessary compulsory, depending on what you want to get out of your job. But, you know, are you just using this job as a stepping stone? In which case, how important also and things do you know. I mean, if it's just a stepping stone, that my first job, I was only there for about eight ish months, I think. And so that was just a stepping stone, a desert meaty. I took what the most I could get from that. But really and truly, I'm not looking back to that job to do anything. Is that you? Just to say I've been in the industry, I've worked professionally, So hear me out. Keep reading my CV basically. But if you're looking for more in terms of, like growing in that company, ask about how other developers have progressed in that company. Do developers stay for a short time and then go? Why is that? Do developers progress really quickly and does their salary reflect that? And do bonuses reflect then you know things like that. So these are really important things you should think about when you're looking for like that new job This'll ist helped me go into my new job because I was really I had really given up hope on DH. I had I wasn't going to apply for the job. I had seen the job advertised on the lead developer off The company actually contacted me directly. It was that Hey, I noticed you looking for a job. You should apply. She sent in your CV, and I did. And I got a call back and I shot That got a callback because obviously, my CV is not like super long. I'd only had two jobs and I did a boot camp. But one of the things that I've noticed that makes me stand out is black Guard tech Starting back guard Tech professionally does make me stand up. And I would encourage anyone looking to get the tech industry Employers really like it when you do extracurricular stuff. Ah, lot ofpeople narrow that down, Teo. Just developing. So you know, side projects and things like that which are really good side projects are really good to show, you know, potential employees that you care and you're interested in what you're doing. But also community work is really good. If you can show that you volunteered for that, you demonstrate your enthusiasm and your desire, Teo, for technology in other ways. Employees like that, too. And I think black go Tech has been a real selling point for me in that, and you'll see I'm not doing black God take for that. But it has helped. Um, so I got a call back from him and he said he gave me an interview and it was like a three stage interview on DH. I remember coming back from the second stage of the No. From the third stage of the interview. This was the final stage. I was told I would only have to do one protest. Um, on the first protest, I didn't finish there, took it home, and I finished it. And I sent it to him the next morning. And then when I got back, I was told that I would have to do another co test. So I was kind of like our crap on day. Let me take this coat test away and do it. And so, for the final interview stage, I had to do at answer some tech questions and I had to do like a, you know, organisational fits kind of interviews. Well, on the tech, questions were quite hard. I didn't really know the answer to one of them. So I remember leaving, thinking I didn't really do amazingly And then I was told I'd get a call back on the Monday It was a Friday was the first day or something. It was late in the week and I got a call about the same day about Kay. We're gonna offer you a job I was really good about. This is this was the first time I was being paid for the skill set. I was act. I want I did want a higher salary, but I thought let me negotiate that later run. So I was basically allowed to negotiate that three months and I've been there for four months now or coming up to four months. So it worked out for me quite well on in this job. The tick, the tech interviews reflected the work out actually be doing on the work I I'm actually doing again. I was clear from the uncertain about my expectations on what I wanted and they took a risk they did on the risk paid off because they have been super helpful. My career growth in my career development on learning new skills and, you know, even to employing an outside mental to help with inside resource is like, What? What is your company willing to do to make sure they get the best employee? Because at the end of the day, the best employee means the best and the product for them. So what? How much are they willing to invest? You need to think about these things when you're looking for a new job or for any job. Actually, um, so, yeah, that's pretty much it's just I feel like this has been a really rambling podcast, but hey ho, like I hope it's been helpful or the same. There are few and announcements, so things are going really, really well in for us in 2017 is going to be an amazing year for black Caltech. So the first thing I want to say is that we have merchandise. We have T shirts, hoodies, tote bags. On the link for that is a T spring dot com forward slash stores forward slash black girl tech t spring dot com forward slash stores forward slash Black Girl Tech and you can get like or your merchandise over there. We have lost in the source merchandise, and we have black guards had imagined as so, Please, please, please support because the funds are going towards helping us over the next year. If you are company and you want to help Black Gogic financially, then please do contact black gold dot tech at gmail dot com. Black girl dot tech at gmail dot com So we can talk and have a chin wag. Yeah, we're looking for corporate sponsors, corporate darkness as well. On Finally, our 1st 2 workshops off the year are going to be in January, we will be teaming up with Tribe at my tribe. London. Cheque them out. They do mentoring for black women across, not just in tech, across industries on our first workshop is going to be with them, and it's going to be about salary negotiation. How to negotiate your salary on black workers with the degree are paid £4.30 an hour less on average than white graduates, and that's from the Office of National Statistics of Labour Force, so that's pretty serious, like £4.13 less on average. So come down. That is going to be on the 12th of January at 6 30 it's going to be at move offices. The details for that will be in the description. You do need to get tickets. It's a ticketed events. You can get tickets at bd tribe dot eventbrite dot com on DTH E. Tickets are £5 deposit. You have to pay £5 but if you turn up to the event, you can get your £5 back. So it's pretty fair. My opinion on DH. There is also an option to donate, and we have another workshop towards the end of January and the 26th of January, and this is going to be at Twitter headquarters. And this is an introduction to coding workshop. And this will be but Lenin. Hey, html. CIA says basics and we'll be following the code academy curriculum, so come down for the interest. A code and workshop which is on the 26th of January on DH. The Salary Negotiable Negotiation Workshop with Tribe, which is on the 12th of January, hoped to see everyone there and everyone supporting. Follow us on Twitter at Black Gold Tech. You can follow me personally on Twitter at Lola Adela. You could follow Lost in the source onto 10 now as well at lost in the source. So, yeah, See you seeing guys. Bye.)
