---
title: hobbies_&_expensive_code
blog: podcast
published: false
date: 2019-05-07 05:00:19
duration: 00:30:44
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/hobbies_and_expensive_code.wav
---
<div class='row'><audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/hobbies_and_expensive_code.wav' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio></div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (Welcome back to the source. I'm your host, Lalla. And this week, I'm going to be talking about hobbies on DH. Why the necessary to be honest, I kind of my journey with hobbies and creative outlets in general. And then in the source, I'm gonna be doing some jog and bust in and explaining what it means when we say something is expensive. I think like if you're new to tech in general, you may have heard the word expensive being used a lot. And no, we are not talking about financially expenses in the source. I'm going to be diving into that a little bit more. So I got my copper. For those who don't know, our covers come pity I recently found out that I have quite a few American listeners, So yeah, it's a cuppa. Tea is I know nobody cares, but I love this t so much, and I just have to share with the world. Is Twinings on a very strawberry on DH? Something else which I totally forgot, and it tastes beautiful. So if you hear like the clinking off the spoons about this episode, I apologise. And on that note, I'm going to take us it. And before we get into it, I just wanted to give a huge thank you and a huge shot out of the norm. Reporter Nora Porter is a senior designer at her racoon, and she was just being like on this spree off listening to the Lawson source, sharing lost in the source and all of this stuff. Andi, I'm really, really grateful. Share us like us. Subscribe. I say us is me. Share Lawson source Like Austin, source of crabs. Innocent souls. We are lost. I understand the source everywhere. Twitter. It's just with but a website is coming soon. I'm definitely in the process of making a website. I'm gonna You know what? Let me talk about this Lawson source website a little bit, so I'm kind of like in a dilemma. It's not a real dynamo. So I recently built my part rebuild my personal site because I got a google dot def domain. So if you go to la la modelo de, you'll see money website and I love it, it's literally the best person that I've ever built for myself. It's very resting, for it doesn't do anything you can book office hours on there. So if you want me to look over your code for half an hour with you, you could do that on the website. But that's pretty much it. And you can read the block. But I want Teo buildout lost in the source website, and I think what I wanted, like, overrule The main thing I want is really ambitious. I'm definitely doing it in chunks, so the first phase is just a light builder. Blawg on DH. You be ableto have transcriptions off the podcast on there, sir, Like I am going to start doing transcripts. Aide of us, which is the Amazon Web services. They have a transcription service, which is really, really cheap, like, really, really cheap, but also quite programmatic. A little bit like it's not. The U. F eight of us, in general is not friendly to people who are not developers on. Even for people who are developers, it's still not friendly. It's very much an internal tool that we've made external. So anyway, they have a transcription service, which is really cheap, So I will be using that to transcribe the episodes on then person on the block as well as having block posts. I don't know. Some of your media may have seen I had a blood post a couple months ago. It was about what was that block post about? I have a feeling it was about statically typed languages versus dynamically text languages. So things like that will be on the block. I think those are like too long for the or two in depth for me to explain verbally on a podcast on, you know, hope everybody kind of gets it. Whereas when you can see the code and stuff like that, so things like that will be on the block. However, I will go a step further on. I essentially want to build out my own not streaming service. But like my own, I want the block to be partof the workflow for creating the podcast. So at the moment, what I do is I record the podcast on Adobe Audition, and then I edited on auditions all the music and stuff, and then I exported on Put it on Soundcloud. And soundcloud has an RCS feed, which he can just put everywhere so you can put the you can put the RCS feed on on that, you can put it on iTunes. You can put it on. Well, what's the other thing? Spotify places, basically all external places. You just link the RCS feed, and so it just gets all the data it needs from sound crowd. The good thing is, that sound crowd also gives you that. Listen the cows and suppress things by countries. And so you can see where your main based listeners are coming from and stuff like this on DH, I said she wants a build, something that I can post I can, you know, post my podcast to my Web site directly. And then I can link an RCS feed, which I would generate used that are six feet instead of sauerkraut. It just means that, you know, all my data's content is definitely mine on also, it just means that I'm in control of pretty much everything with that, with much power comes much responsibility, though, and I don't know if I want to like, do all of that work, especially because some cloud gives me so much in terms of other there. Play counts demographics where people are coming from, however, saying that building something like that will be a real, like learning experience at There's so much I will have to learn, and I can build it in chunks like I don't have to build everything at one go. As I said, the bloc is the main priority now. And enough figure out what I want to do. You know, by a way off, um, what I want to do by way off, creating the kind of like, um, podcast section ofthe things on. I mean, I could really find you in the work flow so that when I upload a podcast because that really into Adria's transcribe it transcribes it automatically gets the transcription posts it, you know, sends it back to me, downloads it automatically down, basically automate the whole process of all I really have to do is like edit the transcription in certain places and stuff and then hit publish. I like it like if I could build its, I could schedule it. There's just like the world is my oyster, you know, just making this podcast work for a simpler, but also it's a lot of work on. Also, it's also going to be a lot to maintain you know, like I don't know if I even want to maintain all of that, but we'll see. I'll keep folks posted on where I'm going with that while I'm doing that. Anyway, that was like a good 10 minute run about this website. Give me a second is gonna take us it. This tea is gorgeous, my goodness. So anyway, the main topic for today is hobbies. So I think it's really important to have things that you do outside of work. Hobbies on DH. I mean, like hobbies. So I don't think there's anything wrong with watching TV. I'm not one of those anti TV people. I watch a lot of TV. Reality TV is kind of like my guiltiest pleasure. I don't watch like all reality TV. If I'm honest, I only I watch a lot of reality TV that features black people. So I'm talking love and hip hop. Not Miami. Know Hollywood's, but definitely New York, 100%. Atlanta. I watch Real Housewives Rule Housewives ofthe Atlanta on off. I'm not really in that her family or fiancee watch that 90 day fiance, See consists of wife that is a show and 1/2 home Wells. Oh, and I recently. So from when I was younger, there was this show called Wife Swap. Why stop his back? So I'm watching myself. So I watch a little TV. And then I watched, like, actual shows as well. So one the actual shows I watch Whiskey Cavalier. Now Bob's burgers I watch TV is my point. You get my drift. I watch a lot of TV, so I'm not anti TV. But I also don't consider TV a hobby like it's just something I do when you know, just like winding down in the evening and just you don't want to think. But you also know unloading anything. You just kind of mindlessly consuming something, you know. So I think that is really good to have hobbies, things that you do that you engage with that is not work related. If you don't know, I come from a pretty creative background. So my undergrads degree was creative writing and English literature. Creative writing was my major English shows. My mind. Am I originally started over English lit as my major, but I wanted to be a writer, so I thought it would be better to have creative writing as my major on. Before that in college, I was heavily into film on I Did film studies. It was actually the only in terms of my A levels. It was only a novel that I did like really well in added film studies, drama and English lit as my A Levels on DH for various reasons. I didn't do that one of my novels, but some studies I gotta be on DH when I was in Like in college and also a secondary schools heavily into drama. Drama was not only a G, C, C G C S C for like those who don't know, he says, He's your so gcs is what you do. I don't know if he's still the same because they've changed some stuff. But she says she is what you got the end of secondary school air levels. He's finished secondary school at 16 and then you do two years off A levels and finish levels are 18 and yeah, so colleges when you do your A levels and then you go on to university. So basically I was like, super into traditional creative things. I don't think there's a hard line between science and arts. I think it can very easily be blood. But I did, you know, traditional creative stuff, and I was really good at it and really into it at various points in my life are cancelled. Just piano. I can read music kind off, I forgot. Whenever I go to read music, I just need a minute to remember all the stuff basically by Kansai treatment in terms ofthe like play play, something I've never seen before just by reading the music for the first time. I can't do that. But if you give me a moment, I could, like, breed what is on the page where they can play. What's on the page is like a different thing, but, you know, I have had piano lessons at some points. I love music. I love, you know, expression in that kind of like creative way and everything. So it's kind of like weird or it has been weird for me. When I've come into tech on DH. It's just like taking over my life. I came into tech because I wanted to be able to write. That is literally why I became a soft mention it because I wanted something that I enjoyed enough that would pay my bills, you know, pay for my food to pay for my living expenses. And also, I would have time to write on DH. Theoretically, I That's a fine plan, actually, because if I didn't have black dog attack on defy didn't become it almost became, like, super visible by. If I didn't do all the stuff that I ended up doing, I would have definitely had time to do that. But just turns out that I am deducting all the stuff that I ended up doing, and so I just didn't have time. I was exhausted by the time it came to think about, like, writing or do anything creative because, you know, at this time I'm still doing that life responsible stuff. I was still living with my mom and my brother. I was unlike I've been heavily involved in. My brothers are bringing in since he, both of us were young. So, you know, helping my mom of that does the life in general, man, like you have friends, you have relationships that you gonna try and to maintain. At the time, I was really into church. Have involved in church and there was that Teo and you just there's just a lot that you're doing that when it comes to like, hobbies, there's just no time. And when it comes Teo for me specifically expressing myself creatively there's just no time. Um And so I remember going back. Teo, I remember going to New York in 2017 and I hung out with a really cool photographer and a filmography, and they're super talented by the work they produce is just beautiful. Like there's no other word for it, but beautiful. I remember coming back this foetus. You conspired and I wrote Blood Post and all of this kind of thing, and I was like, Yeah, 2000 from 18 is gonna be my year to be creative again. And I tried a bit of photography, Andi, I really just came down to lack. I'm just not that good at this. No one likes my work. No one, you know really thinks I'm that good. Although I looked back and saw some other photos, I took black. I took portrait's off. One of my best friends, BJ and I think some of the photos I took a really, really good. I think they're beautiful, but I just I don't know. I just didn't feel like Valley that it feels like I kind of felt like a fraud. A little bit like maybe I didn't deserve to be in the space that was part of it. And there is also pressure for me to see how for me to, like, learn this skill really, really well. So that unwanted ties it so it kind of stopped to being like a hobby and something that I did for fun are more the thing off, Like a skill that I needed to, like, work on and perfect so that I could monetise it someway somehow. Sorry. Took another sip of tea, uh, so that I can monetise it someway somehow on DH literally every everything I've wanted to do be a hobby, be professional, has always ended up being like Okay, I'm gonna learn this thing. But why? What's the point? And inter monetise it? I need to have multiple, You know, streams of income. I need to have, you know, multiple ways of getting money. If I lose my job, I need to know that there's still money coming in some way somehow. So that, for example, Asai said last week, I do D I y stuff. Various types of the allies, like house hold stuff D I Y. But also like body creams and hair creams and stuff like that. And I've been doing that for literally years on DH. There's a point when I was gone just, like, sell that stuff from monitors and I did send it for a little while and it sell it for too long to that mate Bank. But, you know, I saw it like So I was doing my bid buys and, like I saw bedbugs for quite a bit, not cry bills that you jacked a month or something. And it was like making creams and stuff is something that I just enjoy. I love it. And it was like you loved this thing so much, just like Senate make money from it. And I kind of get that thinking. I come from a background that is like, you know, heavy based on hustle. My mom, the people I went to school with, like if you're on it, you were selling sweets and drinks in the playground, you know, during lunch time. If you're somewhere you're selling frozen Luca's aid for water in the playground at lunchtime, you would go to the power shop, buy sweets by that big pack of sweets for, like, a pound, and then you sell each sweep for, like, 20 peers on that, you know? I mean, you make a profit, you know, go back and do the same thing. And I'm black. So many people have these storeys. Everybody knows, like, these kind of things, you know? So I grew up in an environment where make him money waas a big That was the main thing. Everybody was just trying to find new ways of making money, and sometimes they weren't always legal. I'm not gonna pay anybody. Yeah, I'm not gonna deny that, but sometimes it wasn't always legal, but you made your money however you needed to make her money on. And there's also this thing off. Like, you know, you should be in a job that you love being a job that you enjoy an and I think that's nice and everything. But now everyone's gonna have that right. So it was kind of like the minute you find something You're good at the minute. You find a talent fact figure out how you come on a test. Let's figure out how you can sell this talent, you know? And I think that's all well and good, But for me, it just puts pressure on me back as me, the 26 year old know that It just puts pressure on me now where it's like anything I learn, I have to think ofthe. OK, how am I gonna make money from this eventually? Ha, Madonna, Monetise This eventually. And I just like a couple weeks ago, I just had to sit down and be like, How about a minute? I'm in a job that I'm earning a nice amount of money and I have no earning. I'm not struggling him. I can save quite a bit. Not like, you know, loads and loads. But I can save and my struck off my pay cheque and still be OK and still not live paycheck to paycheck. Well, I say that, but yeah, but you know, I'm not struggling. I have a little bit of savings. And I know that if I continue in the way that I am now, my savings by the end of the year will be good. I know that worst case tonight like I rent my house off with my mom. So worst case scenario as she lives somewhere else. So worst case scenario, if I can't afford to pay the rent, we can actually just rent the place I'm in and I can go back to live with my mom's. I'm not like homeless is anything. What's that happened to me? Well, the company, I work for a big company, and so I have stocks in that company now, and so I know that that's a novel income. That's another way of getting money. Like I can sell those stocks eventually? Not yet, but I'll be able to sell those stocks at some point and, you know, make money for that. And their stocks have been consistently doing well for years, so I'm not in that same place. I wass when I first got to Tech. I come from her back from a working class background and know what it's like to be on Jobseeker's allowance. I've been on Jobseeker's allowance three separate times. I know what it's like to have two like Russian, your money and think like you know what? Am I going to spend this last bit of money on food or transport? Um, I'm gonna you know, go now. We're friends. Wasn't even like a thing I've had toe. I've bean. I've been in positions where I had to, like, call friends for that parking spot me £20 or, you know, So I know what it's like, right? And it's not a nice place to be in, but it definitely that coming from that kind of background puts you in a very hyper focused like, Okay, I never want to return to that. And so you was thinking about making money, But it just means that now, whenever I learned something or want to know something or do something, I just put that pressure on myself on DH. Yeah, a couple of guys that know I'm all right. So I'm not gonna do that. Well, I'm gonna travel best not to do that. And so now I am kind of taking my hobbies with a new approach where I'm not thinking off. I never think of necessary becoming good. Any off the hobbies? I want to try like there's a bunch of stuff. I just want to try on a try. Pottery, for example. Like that seems cool. And the reason I wanted to try pottery was like from my d i Y side. Like, if I could just make my own plates, like, if I just make myself a set of plates and because I the place I want in my head, I have a very specific type of plate. It is going to sound so weird, but I do have a very specific type of plates and mugs that I want, and for whatever reason, I can't find them anywhere. So I'm just like, you know what? Maybe I should just make them myself. I know. I want them to look like I know what I want them to feel like. So I'm just making myself so all right. Yeah, I'll try pottery, and I would have to sell this. This is just for me. That sounds strange, but yeah. So you wanna try pottery? I'm currently trying drawing I'm terrible at lying. Drawing like my hand just can't redraw straight lines. I use procreate on my ipad. Andi, I know that. I think there's a setting where like procreate will straighten the lines. Were you something like that? But even still like I want to get good at that, you know? I mean, so try and drawing now. I made Cem. I'm all route watercolour like digital watercolours. I made some Prince the other day and I've been ill a prince on quite like theirs. I'll put this on my instagram at la la da la la on instagram I cried like this on It's just fun to know. I don't know it's fun toe Have something to do to engage with that's not related to my job. That's not related to career developed man. That's just like not for anybody but myself. It's not, you know, if anybody's likes is not for to get money or anything, it's litchi just for myself. Is Luci just away from Mito? Unwind for me, Tio, you know, do something. And also even the drawing can. I came from a deer. I perspective because I want to do some illustrations for that block person stuff like that and I don't want I don't always want to have to pay somebody to do those illustrations. I definitely don't wanna have to always pay someone to do those illustrations because that get expected really quickly. And I don't wanna monetise the broke all the port cost. Sounds like, yeah, let me just learn how to do some, like, basic illustrations myself And, you know, just like although that is kind of flat for my career, Like I mean, banana prints have nothing to do with coding, you know? I mean, so it's just nice, Teo, And it's definitely worked for me to not have to think about like, a ll I wonder if I could, like, print these awesome scarves and sell them with people be interested in Probably there would be. But I think now I'm in the space off. I I'm gonna think Logan hard before I monetise. Anything I do that's not directly related to my career. So, like things that speaking gigs and stuff like that, I like you have to pay a fee. But things like drawing and whatever and I may like you may never even see that I've done these things unless you come to my house or whatever. So, yeah, it's just kind of, I don't know. It was like, interesting for me to realise. And also I really do think it's important to have, like, ah, break from not just, like, work, work, work, work, work, work, work on like not everything. I believe that not everything you do has tohave like a direct purpose or a direct meaning like you can just draw because you want to draw on. That's fine, you know? I mean, indirectly skills are transferrable, so, like the way that I think when I'm drawing or like doing pottery or, like do India, why activates parts of my brain that may not necessarily be activated when I'm, you know, coding or may even be the same parts of the brain and, like things are being reinforced. Then you know, a problem solving and all of these kind of things that I don't really understand because I'm not like a neuroscientist or whatever, but yeah, so I think that's really important. You know, not everything you do. Every extracurricular activity due has to have some kind of direct link to your I don't think it should, but I do think it's important to have what you can engage with and that you could do find things that you just like for the sake of liking where there's, like, you know, plants and cut off the plants, joining choirs, working out. I mean, you work out. Anyway, I'm really not Want to talk about working because that's not something I enjoy in this lightest like at all. But you know, all of that good stuff. So, yeah, that is it for the main topic today. Let's get into the source. So in the source today, I'm gonna be talking about what it means when we say something is expensive. Talk about the cost of something in programming. We're not talking about how much it costs, which is a mistake I made when I was like a newbie. We're not talking about the press of something. We're not talking about the price of it. We're talking about how much power this thing takes, how much power it takes, a combination of how much power it takes and also how potentially time, how much time it takes, whether that's programme in time for the programmer or whether that's like time for the process to run. Usually things that usually not always things that take a long time to run are expensive because they may be going into like they're like memory instead of the cash. And or there may be a long running queries and things like this. A long running query is not query that has, like multiple lines. It's more a query that takes a long time to run. So expensive is really just talking about how much resource do we need for this thing to be done in coding encoding. In programming, I guess. Coding in programming. There's usually a lot of ways to do the same thing, so there are a lot off waste. So, for example, put items in an array. But there are efficient ways to put items in a in an array, and there are no inefficient waste of pork items in an array and if do not efficient ways, are what's called the expensive weighs the same of algorithms. When you're looking at things that are like reaching oh and squared, and all of this, like those are expensive when you're looking at things that have constant time, constant space, those are usually cheaper. Now, some things need to be expensive because of the nature of what you're doing. Some things are just going to be expensive, but your job is to try and make it as efficient as possible, right? And sometimes there's just you could make it as efficient as you want, but they're still gonna be some kind of expense, some kind of like intense, intense usage. Rhett on. That's fine, but the idea is that you understand why something is expensive. You understand why it needs or doesn't need to be expensive, and you understand the ways you can make your programming as efficient as possible. So it is really, actually a good idea to like, get your head around things that would be expensive versus things that aren't really understand. Candlelight. The ins and outs of why? Because when you begin to like understand efficiency and programming, you will become a better programmer because you programme in a way that sufficient, you know, your programmes are wrong. Faster. Listen, likely tohave issues of memory, less likely toe have issues with your databases are more likely to utilise things like your cash and, you know, swap you sort, but like you know, you're more likely to utilise things. That war make your programme run better. Expensive processes slow down the programme in general, usually on DH. When you're gonna use one, you need to understand why you're going to use it on what you're going to use it for. So yeah, that's really expensive. I'm not sure. I guess sometimes in Lawson source I'm really gonna be doom or jog and bust inthe. Unlike explaining a detailed cheque and cool concept, I think that's just as important as what we should have the language to explain the things that we want to explain and say that things were going to say we should understand the language. So yeah, that is it for this week's Lost in the Source. Thanks for listening. Subscribe like Follow us. We're lost in source everywhere. Soundcloud spotify Apple Podcast on Twitter Tell your friend to tell a friend, Andi, you can cheque out my new Web site. As I said earlier, lala adela lat dot dev, You can book office times. I do free half an hour sessions. If you're struggling with a bit of code, definitely book a time and we can look at the code together we could figure out, but yeah, I will see you next week)
