---
title: i_quit_my_job
blog: podcast
published: true
date: 2018-12-18 23:19:34
duration: 00:37:53
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/i_quit_my_job.mp3
---
<div class="row">
<audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/i_quit_my_job.mp3' class="col-md-12">
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio>
</div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (this baby girl has quit her job. This episode is brought to you by blackguard Tech Black Girl Tech is a non profit that aims to help diversify the tech industry by encouraging more black women and non binding people to learn and explore technology. Checkout blackguard took on Twitter, Facebook and instagram at blackguard Tech on online at Black Girl Doctor, Thanks for joining me again. I just want to say thank you to everybody who listened to the first episode. Um, it was really, really nice to see such a warm welcome. And it was nice to know that so many people enjoyed it. I've found it beneficial. If you've heard my intro, which you probably have and you've read the title of this episode which you probably have, you would know that I quit my job. If you've been following me on my personal Twitter account that you also know that I quit my job, I quit my job about four, 34 years ago. It's been a while since I quit. On DH is also a reason why I haven't recorded because I'm just literally taking a minute to myself to recoup too, just like figure things out. What I'm gonna do next, what's happening and just die? Just everything. The last I would say the last five months have been a lot. They have been a whole hell of a lot. Um, and it's just been a lot to just kind of rest from I'm not going to go into too much detail about what happened at back job is kind of want to put it behind me now. Um, but I will say that everything that glitters is no gold. That's saying just rings true on a lot of these companies that, you know, promote empathy and I cost you protect for good and did it, you know, they're not always what they seem, Andi. I think they work for some people and they do know what others. And it did not work for me. Um, I can't really pinpoint why I have. I have my theories, but still, you know, But today's episode our main topic is going to be looking at red flags and how to know to quit your job, how to know when it's time to leave Andi, I don't mean like, you know, resignation. And I mean, like, quit you've had enough, you're out. That would be my main topic. And then in the source, we're gonna be talking about object oriented programming and doing a shallow dive off what is object or into programming. I'm going to talk about the key principles on what they are. And, yeah, that will be this episode. So getting right into it, I quit my job. My official last day was thie 10th of December. It is currently the world 18th of December, so but a week going out. But I had stopped working before then on DH. I've had a little bit of time to think things through to kind of look back on this situation and I have put together just like a list of things Red Flags off, went to know to quit. And also what to do that, what should your process be, or at least what was my process? And also, I took a little bit about what I'm doing next. What's next for me? Um, so let's get into red flags. Actually, before I against that, I want to say preface, this passing, quitting your job is really luxury is a privilege. Not everybody has the privilege of being able to just quit to being able to just walk away on. I am going to talk a little bit later about finances and, you know, lining things up for yourself. But at the end of the day, we mystically not everybody can quit. I was beneficial enough to be able to be in a position where I could quit. I had some money saved up. So I have, you know, a few months worth of living expenses saved up, sir. And I'm good for a little while. Um, I'm not gonna be like Russian for another job or scraping his ground in a worried and like, sleepless nights about what's next finance wise. So I just wanted to put that then no, everybody can quit, and that's really unfortunate. But if you can quit, then this is for you. So first things first. Red flags. Um, you know, you're not mad, and I say when I say you're not mad, I mean, you're not imagining things like a lot of how you feel is no imagined, especially in a work environment. You feel the way you feel for some reasons, and there are the reasons you feel that way because ofthe how people make you feel and I love the time. It is kind of like Microaggression e. Sometimes it can be Mac. Word can be just outright, you know, talk it in, but love the time. It's more insidious. It's more kind of like gas lighting and make you wonder, like, Oh, maybe this is me. Maybe it's just all in my head. It is not in your head to the first red flag I was going to talk about is moving goal posts. Something that happened at this last job hours at quite frequently was I would. So, for example, when I started the job, I didn't know any of the programming languages on also because, you know, when you're new to the job, you can't. We don't really have context off how the company works. You still have the kind of learn that. So your first few weeks on the job, you kind of have to figure out how people pick things up. How difficult a task is. This is another task and think that you know, we have context. So for the first weeks as a signed work, um, and I was told that what I was assigned wasn't really ideal, just not because I couldn't do it or whatever was. Therefore it just wasn't ideal because a lover was based on external things like Facebook and waiting for Facebook to get in touch a vast and stuff like that. So I was told to do something else. I was doing that thing, and then I was told that thing was the wrong thing to do. So they moved the goal post. They said, Do this. I did it And they said, Oh, actually know you're doing the wrong thing. Do this Instead, I did that and then again was told, actually know you're doing the wrong thing to do this since that and this happened a lot. So this moving off the goalposts right on. A tangible example of that is we had six weeks sprints and then in between your six weeks, you had two weeks where you kind of just like working on whatever you want to work on. On that two weeks, I suggested working on something was my 1st 2 weeks. Um, I suggested working on something on my roll, buddy, the person who's supposed to kind of be my guide. I was like, You should work on that. That is a really good idea. You should work on that. When I spoke to my manager, my manager said to me, actually, and I don't think that's actually a good idea. Don't work on them. So is that cool? I will work on them. And then maybe a few hours later, my manager came back signals that actually, you can work on that. Um, I shouldn't have coming to what? You and your nobody had decided that. Fine. I'll work on that. Then I got feedback. Um, constructive feedback, saying working on that was the wrong thing. And it showed that I did not know how to prioritise the toss off the team. And so for me, that was moving of the corpus I had spoken about. It was my 1st 2 weeks. I didn't really know what was suitable. Was not on. I pitched it. And I was expecting a Yes. That's a good idea. No, this little good idea and kind of move from there, and then during that time was just told various different things, you know, and then to get quote unquote constructive feedback that I do not know how to prioritise the team was a bit of a shock that's moving of the gold price. That saying one minute, saying yes and then saying no to the exact same thing, the exact same context and then, you know, kind of get him feedback for that s O. If you feel like people at your place of employment are moving, goal posts that moving targets. So you're on the way, hitting a target and then suddenly has changed. It's not that target anymore. That is a red flag. Another one is admitting they did something wrong, but still making you shoulder the blame. So, for example, um, I in fact, though, in numerous times when they didn't give me support, I needed to excel job and they would admit it, they would say, Yeah, we know we didn't give you support. We're sorry about that, but they wouldn't then give me support. What they would do is say, Oh, yeah, we know. But moving on, you're going to do this and then when I would later be my performance would later be reviewed. It would be like, Oh, you're not really hitting what we expect of you without taking into account that, Okay, I'm not hitting that because you haven't provided the support. So they're still making me shoulder the consequences of not having support on take on that blame is or like, I'm not hitting the targets. That's true because I haven't been given support, which you should have given me, you know? So if they even if they're able to admit that they've done something wrong, if they're not able to kind of rectify that and to provide support that is not in detriment to you, then that's a problem. That's a red flag. The only way that this company said they could provide support to me was to demote me, despite the fact that they hadn't provided the initial support. I required any way. The only way they said that they could provide support was to demote me. They wanted to keep my pay the same, but just promote my level that my role, Um, and that's a red flag. Another thing is vague requirements. If they're not specific about what they require off you, that is a B B big problem. Um, because they will always be able to do things like move the goal posts. And there will always be able to say that you're not meeting their expectations because the requirements are vague on our open to interpretation by literally anybody. Right? So how can you really, like they can always manipulate and change it to sue them? Um, an example of that is, And I was always told that I'm looking for rules I'm looking for, like a set of rules off, like do's and don'ts. They didn't want me tohave do's and don'ts. They wanted me, tio like, investigate. Like, Why's this? Okay. Here. Why is this okay there? Why is this you know doing all of that, Andi, I think that it's weird for company to say they don't have rules. In my opinion, it's weird for company to say they don't have booze and Don's, especially when they clearly do. I was being reprimanded for things I was doing, which means you have a way of doing things, which means you have a set of rules. You have a way off the way things work here, which is fine. Just let me know what they are. But I was kept being told that I can't will not care about, Like I want rules too much. And I'm not like I'm not curious enough. Um, if you know me, you and I am very curious. So that was always weird to hear because that's country to any feedback about going in my like life since school s. Oh, you know, for me, those vague requirements off Bi curious. It's like, OK, when I am curious, you say It's not the kind of curiosity you wanted or whatever, like you know, because it's vague, they'll always be able to manipulate it to suit them. Nit picking nit picking is like a really easy way to count people's nose. I am because I had brought some things up with my manager. I was also under a microscope, which meant that any time I made a mistake, no matter how small or how big, no matter if other people had make the same mistake or similar mistakes, no matter if other people aren't the same kind of questions, I was your anyone that was targeted for it. So I was Nick like it was like nitpicked nip it. I remember one time I heard arcs the question about something that had already been discussed in the meeting. Just that's a clarifying question. Andi, I was told that ah, feedback I got from the managers, like, you know, that question would've was really discuss that. So the fact that was asking again, Kind of like, I don't know, maybe should I wasn't listening or something. And then I remember we went to Lisbon as somebody arcs exactly the same question and they didn't. Well, I'm assuming they didn't. Maybe they did receive the same feedback but definitely wasn't approached in the same way everybody was, you know, lovely and welcome to explain it to them. And I realised that they had been facing similar problems to me, but maybe hadn't been voicing it as much as I have. And they're. The reason I was voicing as much as I did is because the company wanted to create this environment off. All of this is, you know, a learning environment between youto ask questions we need to grow and to explore blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So I have been asking questions, and I realise other people were not asking questions in the same way which meant they were stuck on problems for longer than I was. And it meant that it looked like they were, I don't know, making more progress than I was because they weren't asking as much questions. It looked like maybe they knew more. I don't know. Um, you know, so nit picking in that way. And also another example is there was a document. It was a very general document that could be applied to any team. In my opinion, it could have been applied to any team. And so it was like her. When you go away on vacation, you give this document to your team and they can just fill up like key things you've missed. So maybe a link to a video call you missed or, you know, whatever. Just key things. If any big thing changes, just drop it in that dog's eye arcs to my role body to, like, help me fill out of the dark. Andi, I got feedback that that was the wrong thing to do, because in engineering you're expected to be responsible, responsible for your own work, blah, blah, blah, and I think that's fine. But the feedback I got was you know why did I even think the dock was a good idea? So nit picking things like that? Because that Sunday's just a doctor life. You fill it out, you don't feel out find I'll just go on slack or whatever to figure things out. But the facts that I had even asked was a problem. And so that kind of nit picking every little thing. Um, if work is causing huge changes, like outside of work, if you're feeling more depressed, if you're feeling upset, anxious, angry, outside of work, whenever you think about what that's a problem. I went on vacation. I keep saying vacation because I'm currently in Detroit and they don't know what annual leave off holidays over here. So I went on vacation. Um, four week. It was my best vacation. I am vacation for week in November on DH, A day into my holiday, I was dreading going back to work, and there's only one day it was Day one on us. I just don't want to go back into work. I don't want to do it. And, you know, other things were like, I would see my manager's name pop up in my in box and I just kind of like have a many attack. And it was just, like a lot causing these mood changes. And it just wasn't nice. I'd be exhausted and depleted at the end of the day. Would want to talk to anybody. Wouldn't wanna, you know, be around anybody because I'm just, like, attack out. That's a problem. And the final one is your sleep. So it's really important to listen to your body while you're in thes kind of environments. Because although you may think you're handle in it, your body will tell you for your hand, and they know you're not meddle in it, that your physical body will tell you I'm not gonna go into the gory details or everything that happened to me during that time, but my body shouted at me loud and clear. One of the things was that I wasn't sleeping properly. Either be really difficult to go to sleep because I'm thinking about work. When I did go to sleep, I would have dreams about being in meetings of my manager and her manager and, you know, like it wouldn't be like how was actually asleep. Wouldn't even be like I arrested because I'm working, dropped the whole day. And then I'm dreaming about working during the whole night. So it was really affecting my sleep on my body. And those are the main red flags. So moving goalpost and MIT, and they did something wrong, but still making shoulder the blame. Vague requirements nit picking When work is causing mood changes on your physical body's responding So you're not sleeping well or any other stress responses. Those are red flags. Those are problems. That's when you know that. Okay, this environment is not healthy. Maybe I should start looking elsewhere. So what do you do? What do you do in those situations? Well, the first thing you do is you need to exhaust your options at work. It could possibly be that they don't even know they're doing this stuff and you can bring up in a polite way. I called a few quite a few meetings with my manager on guy always brought in one always but most of time. I know one of the key meetings. I had a neutral person. That's so someone who wasn't on my side wasn't on my manager side. Just a neutral person to just listen and they didn't necessary talk or interjected. Just listen and make sure the conversation was going in a productive direction. And that really helped me to just know I had someone there who, you know, isn't on anybody's side is a neutral party. Um, on DH, then? Yeah, quite a lot off meetings with my Mandarin. Her manager. You know, whoever I needed to talk to, I made sure I did. Voice who more? Most of my concerns, Um, and let them kind of do what they will with that. Um, that way they can't say I didn't They didn't know. I didn't say, You know, you give people the chance to rectify their roles. I gave them chance to rectify their wrongs, and they didn't. So next step Logan. The next up. But another step is to take some time off to think things through in inadvertently had already booked this, you know, week vacation a while ago. So it came out a nice time where I could just kind of, like, rest a little bit and think things through. It could be possible that, you know, things at work are just busy. Hectic. Everyone's in a bad mood. For whatever reason, maybe you've got a deadline coming up or whatever. And, you know, this is not how it is normally. So you take, you take a break, take some time off to rest, and really just think things through and plan. What's your next move? Are you going to stay if you stay? What needs to change? How you gonna go about changing things? Who do you need to talk to? To change things? If you're going, do you have enough money which will come to in a minute? Job job lined up? You know what is your next move? Just taken that time away from work to just think things through and key to rest. I took a week off vacation and then when I got back, my doctor's collectively gave me three weeks. Oh, so I had about four weeks to be. Well, I didn't start thinking about leaving in that vacation. I start thinking about leaving when the doctors gave me the time off. But you know that three weeks is really gave him time to think things through. And halfway through that three weeks is when I quit. Um, talk to people you trust. So during this whole process, I was talking to people outside of the company who also kind of like in the industries I have. I'm Luke, who's my mental. I was talking to him quite a bit, and he advised me on what to do, Who to talk to you, how to go about things. Um on. I spoke to my mom. Of course, he was obviously more protective of more defensive than like Luke, But it was also good to kind of her. You know, she's a big woman. She's been in employment for most of her life. Now she's worth of various different kinds of employers. So, you know, she has professional experience. And I spoke to my friends as well, just to kind of like then and having that support system around me really, really, really helped. I wasn't alone. They don't feel like I was alone. I felt valued. I felt like I you know, all the impostor syndrome I had at that job, kind of like my mentor, my friends and my mom and less friends in the industry and other industry were able to kind of be like, No, you know, your valuable. You're wanted your love to your your thoughts are important. You know your work is good, like, you know, just like feed and positivity into me. And that really, really meeting really helps to talk to people you trust and, you know, try and get some advice. If you don't have any mental is in your industry. You know, Google. See what other people's experiences are hard to handle these things. Maybe problems are specific to industry on dso Google search online Twitter for these things and then try and figure out your finances and your next steps. I thought that I could hold out to the end of December. That was a joke. Absolute joke, mate. Because, as I said, a week and 1/2 or so into my time off that the doctors gave, I was just like, Now I can't do this. I really, really can't do this. Um, but I knew I did have some money. I'm saved up that I could use for my salary for a few months, so that was beneficial to me. Um, if you don't have that try, I would really recommend taking some time out to arrest. But also just try and start thinking about what's your next step? What jobs are your plan for? Was the market like at the moment, if you can stay in your current position for as long as possible so you can save or get money and then bounce? Call if you can't, that's also fine. But just try and, like, build your Connexion. So like, for example, I put out a tweet that basically said, I've quit my job. I'm looking for a new one here, My skills. Who's hiring? You know, a bunch of people are like, I'm hurrying, I'm hurrying or here's how in this hiring I've taken a few interviews and I've taken out two interviews. I didn't get one, which is fine. Another one. They want me, But you know, we'll see what happens. And then I've got off what few contract in things lined up. So really depend on your network. Really fall into network. Make it clear that you've been looking for something new if you can't yet make it clear, because you don't want your employees to know talk to people in the DMZ. People have hit me up in my diems to be like, Hey, I'm looking for a job. Do you know anywhere this hiring talked to people in your DMS, talk to Network privately and really see what's out there and actually like Search, Google Search, Who's hiring Lichten and, indeed, jobs and all these other job boards and stuff. See who's hiring. So those are my main steps of what to do on the red flag. So what to do? Talk to your managers and really exhaust your options at work. Take some time off to think things through and rest. Talk to people you trust and try and forgot your finances and next steps. So what's next for me? Well, as I said, I'm in Detroit at the moment on the key things, I'm resting. I am chilling. I'm just relaxing, cooperate and regenerating that doctor who, like I am just making sure I'm coming backto full la la la at my full strength on DH. Then I am going to try a contract, and since I do have some money saved up on, we're going to track this contract in thing on DH freelance in being, so I'll take a mixture of different contracts. Have if you lined up. Some are long term like months, and some are short term like these s o. I'm just trying things out and seen what's out there for me. I think contracting is the best way that can really get what I want out of life, which is to be able to work from anywhere I want to work and also to be ableto go on holiday whenever I want to go on holiday. Um, so that's why I want to do contracting. And I'm I'm excited. I'm excited. My first contract is actually with Black Guard Tech blackguard. Zac recently got a large. A nice sum of money was a lot of loads was allowed. Hundreds of thousands were was a nice sum of money where I can pay myself too now dedicate time to it properly, and we're doing the whole re brand. So I can actually pay myself to work on this Monday toe Friday or Thursday 95 proper for at least a month. So that's really, really, really good on day. We'll see where things go from there. A few other things I want to work on while I have this time off. His was just apps killing myself. I'm just doing the training that I would have done, like on the job. So things like learning about algorithms and learning design principles and really, how to design properly because I'm over back and engineer, right? I really want to do that because I think it's important. Now I have the time to sew. That is great. All right, now we're in the source the portion of the show where I talk about something technical, and today we're gonna be talking about object oriented programming before I get into this. I'm just going to say, like I didn't know or rather I didn't know objects or into programme is because I do it for my job, But I didn't really have the language tricks playing it properly. And so a lot of this has come from Google and various articles and stuff that I've read on Wikipedia and stuff. So I don't think this has just been sitting in my head like all this time home. The language for this is that come from other people and other sources. Um, but I think sometimes you know, especially in engineering and especially if you come from like a non traditional background. You may learn how to do something before you really know what it is, if that makes sense. So yeah, object oriented programming, otherwise known as O. P. Is a programming paradigm. And it's the idea that you have a collection of objects that holds some kind of data or state, and they collaborate by sending messages to each other in the form off methods or send him just messages to an object. And that's in the form of a method. And so an example would be you have a person, objects and a person objects Hossam data. And that data could be a name a j height, right? And you may have a bunch of methods that are associated with that object, such as get to name or gets height. Roseanne. When you send those methods to the object to extract that data or state, Right. Um, so, yeah, that's kind of I hope that made sense. That's kind of the idea behind object oriented programming on it can be broken down into a few key principles, depending on where you read someplace to say, there are three key principles. Someplace to say that for we're competing hosts that lists a bunch more than four key principles. But I'm not going to talk about four today, and they are encapsulation, obstruction, inheritance on polymorphous ism quoting dwarfism polymorphism. So encapsulation is basically putting all the methods and behaviours related to a type of objects in one place, and we usually call this a class, so a person objects would actually be a person class and everything related to how a person should behave on what a person is would live in that person class. So the behaviour data methods in this class are only in the scope off the class. So a car object or car class does not have access to what's inside of a person class. Unless you explicitly tell it to. You have to explicitly tell it to, but it doesn't by the fall, so other classes don't have access to each other unless you explicitly tell them to. So abstraction is kind of like the next step to encapsulation on abstraction is about keeping things on a need to know basis, so only exposing code to the parts of the programme that needs to know about it. An example would be s o say you have a car, right? And as the end use off the car, you just need to be able to open or close a door. You just need to be able. Teo, put your key in the ignition. You don't need to know how the door opens and clothes closes. You don't need to know how the engines started. You don't need to know what you know. Parts make up the engine and all of that kind of stuff somebody else's storey about that and put that together. And you know, you really need to know how to open and close the door, how to put the key into the ignition. Right? So that's abstraction is about keeping things on a need to know basis on only exposing the bits of code to the bits of the programme that need to know about it. So that's abstraction. Next, we have inheritance on. This idea of inheritance is about allowing objects too. The scent She have parents objects and inherit data or methods from the parent objects. So backto our person class, our person off jets, you can have a person which has maybe a name Andi age and height. And then maybe you also have a student class which inherits from person. So, students we also have a name Agent Heights, where may also have other stuff like grades and attendance and, um, punctuality. Right, which person doesn't really care about? But student does care about. And then you may also have a pet Listen, his parent on issues a teacher class that also inherits from person right on a teacher cross cares about, um what do teachers care about? I used to be a teacher. Should know this. Um a teacher class might care about lesson plans and, you know, stuff like that which a student doesn't care about a person doesn't care about, but a teacher, which is a type of person does care about. So the teacher will also have a name, age and height, right on a student All seven name agent had because they both inherit from person there types off. I want to say people, but in this case, I'll say their taps off persons is people. I hope that makes sense. And the last on polymorphism, which is a little bit more difficult to explain and to understand polymorphism is a can be a bit of a doozy. So pony move ism is similar to the idea of inheritance. You have an object and then you have Ahh Celestia. You have a shaped object, right? You have a typical shaped object straight can have. You can have types of shape so you can have a circle. You can have a square and they are a ll inherited from shape. So circles a type of shape, squares of type of shape. They were inherited from shape. Let's say shape has a method called drawer right. That method will also be like circle and square will also have that method draw. Now there will be a general thing that draws does which you know will be defined in shape will be a general thing That drawer does that we define in shape. Now when you call that method on circle or square drawer would act differently depending on the type. You call it on. So take the general stuff. That's the finding shape on DH, then remix It usually taken an argument, apply it to circle and supply. It's a square so that I behaved properly in each context. I'm not sure that made sense. I'm going to read exactly whatever. Well, I didn't write this. Someone else wrote this. But objects of type, circle and square are derived from a common class. Could shape the draw function from each type of shape implements what is necessary to draw itself. I'II Circle square, while calling code can remain indifferent to the particular type of shape is being drawn right, So the draw method doesn't really in shape. Doesn't need to know what what the object is, what the shape is by just needs to know how to draw. And then when you implement in circular square, you kind of inject something that tells it, you know, draws their control square Whatever. I hope that made sense. I think that could have been described better. But as I said, there are online resource is to explain these things and a lot more detail on things do get more complex as you dig deeper and deeper and deeper into object oriented programme. Um honour like day to day level. These are things you will be using every day. Pretty much encapsulation is something use every single day. Inheritance is something you probably will use special fees in a framework probably will use everyday abstraction is just a way you should. Code is like a really, really good practise toa do abstract your data Stretch your code into, you know, on a need to know basis. Polymorphism doesn't come up that often, but it does come up. I have used it in my, you know, everyday in my job's So yeah, those are the key principles encapsulation, abstraction, inheritance and polymorphism that, he said. See what object oriented programming is about. It's literally just away. Or, um, look, storing your your code in a way that says This is an object and really working on the premise ofthe moving objects from one place to another, sending messages to objects and, you know, working in that way. So you have, As I said, a person classing said, a bunch of messages to get data out of the person cross. There are other ways of programming can have functional programming which are not at odds with each other. You can I think you can do both in the same AP, for example, can functional programme and can have other types of programming as well, which I may or may not go into because I've not done functional programming before, so explaining that might be a little bit harder. But we'll see. We'll see. I'm all for expanding knowledge and learning new things and stuff. This episode is Port Sea by black Caltech Black Girl Tech is a non profit that aims to help diversify the tech industry by encouraging more black women and non binding people to learn and explore technology. Checkout blackguard took on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram at blackguard Tech on online at Black Girl Doctor. Thank you, Thank you. Thank you for listening to this episode. I will be back in two weeks talking about something completely different. Who knows? I may have a new permanent job. I may have given up on this contract in being Oh, I may be loving it. I will let you know, enjoy your Christmas break if he celebrate Christmas. If you don't celebrate Christmas, enjoy the rest of season's greetings and all of that liver up on New Year's and I will see you in 2019. Bye)
