---
title: lets_get_lost_in_degrees_&_apis
blog: podcast
published: true
date:  2019-03-12 17:27:58
duration: 00:27:03
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/lets_get_lost_in_degrees_and_apis.mp3
---
<div class='row'><audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/lets_get_lost_in_degrees_and_apis.mp3' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio></div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (look who's too cute to type tables and that a weekly episode. Welcome back, turn most of the source by rights. I am your host, Lala. Welcome to Lost in the Source. This is a poor cost where I talk about my journey in tech on DH software engineering, and I also explained technical concepts in the source this week. I'm going to be talking about doing a computer science masters. I spoke a little bit about that last week on In the Source. I'm going to be talking about what is an A P I. I mentioned the phrase AP and last week's episode, and I realise that it really explain what that meant. So this weekend this is I'm gonna be explaining what an a p I is. So yeah, let's get into it. I'm feeling really good this week. I think last week was like a week of frustration and a week of that are. And this week I'm just kind of that life is all right. You know, things are things are popping, things are good. So of 34 weeks ago, I got accepted to do my master's degree in computer science at Birkbeck, the good thing about Birkbeck is that they do evening classes on DH. So that's that was one of the main reasons why I chose Birkbeck. Another reason is that I was going to apply for U C l A. And when I spoke to the admin person on the phone, they were just really rude on. I just did not feel like giving them my money. Um, I don't have a traditional background when it comes to computer science. As I've said on this podcast before, I have an English finish it a degree. I didn't do maths a level or anything like that. Math stopped at G. C. S C ous did sciences, to be honest with you. And so I was calling to find out if my experience was enough and she went from saying, Well, you don't have math So you're just not going to get in to saying what you have for years experience. So this degrees over for you anyway, and it was just very much like that, like we just never got a look at your application, and I just let okay cause I know other people who have non traditional backgrounds who go on to do masters programmes and stuff like this at various different types of Houdini's eso. Just her attitude was just like not it for me. So I decided to look elsewhere, and but Beck was, you know, but Beck was the one. They were really, really kind of supportive when I went to their open evening, even though I didn't have the traditional stuff. They said that because it's a general generalist degree, that that's fine. And you know, my experience will kind of help with the course anyway, So I took the aptitude test. They give you like an aptitude tests. If you don't have the background experience, they give you an aptitude test on DH. I did it. I got deep the paper the day before the test, and then I went the next day to take the test that Burt back. I wouldn't recommend that the only reason I felt confident to do that is because the test is in Python on Repeat in python are very, very similar, and they give you this book. Look, where's life? 80 pages, pdf Andi, just work through the booklet on. Then they'll test you get is like three questions half on hour Based on what you've learned in the booklet on, because the concepts are very, very, very, very similar to Ruby, it was easy for me to pick up, and it's like beginner level stuff, you know, assigning variables, manipulating strings and wass into German a little bit about billions and if conditions and stuff like that. So this is stuff I do my everyday drop of ruby. And so it was just It was more for me. It was just more about making sure I knew this in tax, um, and so I did, and I passed it. Thank good. And yes, I start that in October. Now I know some people probably wondering, Why the hell are you doing a master's degree when you already have a job in the field? Or had you've had drops in the field on DH? That's when we'll be talking about today. So I spoke a little bit last week about the facts that the industry has been very exclusionary towards me. On DH. It's been they don't care that they once it's a real crack bickering about diversity. And when I say they, I mean like the Royal ve I'm not targeting anyone in particular. They don't care about diversity. They're not ready for the reverse. He just yet. I think there are some individuals some companies who are trying dance their best, but on a hole on a large majority. No, we're not there yet. What was what that has meant for me? Those I haven't really being given the kind of same opportunities that others have gotten in the sense that I don't think I've been given many opportunities to grow. I've been set up for failure in a love my jobs. And so for me, doing the masses is about taking that power back. And it's about saying, Hey, I don't want to wait for someone to give me the opportunity to learn a thing or two Feel like I know something. What if you're qualified and deserving off my position in this industry? I want to just I want to be able to determine that you know that me do no masters. Some of it is a bit more psychological on a bit more about me decided that Hey, I want this power back. I want to be in control of you know how I value my skills. Something that was interested in my therapy session two weeks ago was that my therapist noticed. I found it difficult to say that I'm good, like I'm good at being an engineer and I'm good at doing the work I do on DH. That isn't even anything that was on my radar before them. But it's true. I do find it difficult. Sometimes We'll have the time to say that I'm good. I do. I do on I am, I am good. I know stuff. I can do stuff. Andi, just me doing the Masters is partly because of that party, because I want to take that. Take that back basically, um, and so another reason is because there are specific things I want to learn where you don't necessarily learn on the job unless there's a black actual reason for it. Fred. So, for example, data structures and algorithms. If you are in tech, you may have heard this kind of phrase. The two are set together. They structured mackerel, flown about a lot, and it's something you learned at Uni, right? And it's about known about data structures. Um, Funny Storey This week I learned that an array is not always an array. And then the next day I learned that Honore may not always seem like an array, but usually is always in a race. What do I mean by that? In Ruby, what is considered an array is not the same thing, or on the surface does not look like the same thing that's considered an array in Java sonar array. In Java, you have to set the max amount of items it it can take and array. In Ruby, you don't have to set any max amounts. It can grow supposedly indefinitely, implicitly, indefinitely, right? But then I did some reading, and it seems like an arraign. Ruby Ruby is actually written in C, and so in sea there are in the source code off theory class of Ruby. There are limits and stuff like this said, and it goes into lax stuff about a rail. Is that all this other stuff? That's not stuff you learn on the job. That's not stuff you need to know on the job. Really, unless you're doing something that you know requires you to know that. And in Web development, you're rarely required to know that kind of thing. And so there are things I want to learn that I just will more likely learn in a theoretical classroom lecture environment than doing stuff on the job. I've become good at building applications job, and that's not really something you learn. We'll get nose of practise I at You know what you know, doing it kind of life scar applications that I've contributed to. You don't get that kind of experience, that union. So I'm really just for me. It's about like a balance in act off, knowing the really practical stuff to the theoretical stuff that kind of lays the foundation on broadens your knowledge. The engineers I really admire most who worked at, say, Degrees they who had this kind of like, foundational knowledge of stuff that I didn't have, and I admired them for that. And so this is me trying to get that knowledge, learn it. It's not about me being smarter or blah, blah, blah. It's literally just That's something I don't know. There's something I want to know. This isn't a really good environment to learn it, because algorithms and data structures I've done some mutiny courses and stuff, and it's not the most straightforward thing to learn, you know, so having definitely having a lecture whose job it is to teach you is definitely, like a benefit for me, a classroom of Ram and, you know, computer labs, all this kind of stuff where you're allowed to make mistakes and you'll be corrected in a way that's not like you're losing your job, you know? So that's it. That's that's a key thing for me as well. On DH, it looks good on paper. Having a masters at the end of the day looks good on paper. I understood that there's been a lot of flak, unpopular opinions off different editions, so there's like unpopular opinions. Black Women's Edition on popular opinion's Body Type edition There's an unpopular opinions tech addition, and I was reading a thread yesterday that a friend set me on one of the one of the things in the thread was unpopular. Opinion thread was Degrees. Not sure you don't need a degree to get attack, but that's more truthful white men than it is for underrepresented minorities in tech. And I just found that really fascinating. If you are a minority in underrepresented minority. You are more likely to a degree is more likely to help you then, if you are a white man who doesn't have a degree, if that makes sense, basically, if you're underrepresented, you having a degree is not gonna hurt. He's probably going to do more good for you than if you didn't have a degree. And that's simply because you are minority. How you look, your ability, your sexuality, whatever it is. So for me. And I'm not sure if that has really impacted me. I don't know. There's no way to measure and tell. But I know that for me. I I don't want to leave it to chance anymore. If I have it, it looks good on paper. You know, no one can say no. Discount me for not having it, you know, on DH again, it goes back to my thing about like taking the power back. Um, you know, like, that's another thing you really now have to You have to read reconciling the fact that this is not because of my ability or anything. That's because you know you're not treat me because I like anything. You'd treat me because of your your treatment badly because of your prejudices or whatever. But it does look good on paper on on that, that it There is something about the opportunities that opens up in general in terms of like living internationally, like I don't plan to be in the UK for the rest of my life. However anywhere I would want to immigrate Teo, whether it's within the U or within North America or most places actually lie, even places in that in America, like chilli and other places, they were quite. If you want to become, if you want to get a work visa work permit whether the government is in your field, they usually require a degree that's in your field. Some places don't require degree. That's in your food. They just require degree. But a lot of places say we want to see your degree That single filled. My first degree is a English literature degree, and so that was only count. It counts towards places that don't care. But if I wanted to move to like I don't know Canada or even founded to move to Germany like they'll be Latin now we need to see a degree that's in the field that you're working. Um, so it really does open up doors in that way. You know, I do not regret a different don't regret doing my dinner boot camp. And I think he was actually better for me to do things this way around I e do the boot camp, get some work experience on vendor the degree Because so I'm learning Java at the moment of my kind of plan because I'm super scared about being stressed out. When I start this degree, I'll be working full time as well. And I'm super stressed out because, you know, I don't wanna I don't want to be stressed while doing it, you know? So I'm trying to learn as much as I can now, so that by the time, because I have time now. And so by the time I start, I'm really, really forcing the things I've really learned. Number one and number two. I'm going over things that I try to learn by myself. And I didn't quite understand, you know, and I'm really honing in on ghost things in particular. So at the moment, with millon in Java, I can because I because I have the foundation of Ruby, and I understand how a re P works. Me coming into Java doesn't feel it's brand new. They're two very different languages on. I made a podcast on just Java, but or rather the differences between Java and repeat that both object oriented programming languages. But I am able to bring the stuff the programming found foundations, the programme in methodology and stuff like that, not from Ruby to Java. And I'm able to pick John up quickly enough. You know, there's things that are really different about job. For example, Java is very strict about, um, defining methods of variables in the way that it did France Methods of variables. I wrote a whole block post about that this week, which our link in the description you can read but on Ruby's not are stripped, you know things. So there's things like that. But in general I am comfortable with Java because off the foundation of Ruby that I have. And I was talking Tio, one of my friends. He does computer science, shout toluene. He does computer science undergrad at union on what she was in Is that Yeah, like your you have an advantage because I'm able to code on most of the people on the course will not be able to coat right. And so I have an advantage, you know, above that. So that's a good thing. That's a benefit on DH. So I think that I think I should be fine. I am still a bit scarred, but I think I should be fine on that. I think you know it's gonna be I'm excited is gonna be interesting masses to peace. As I said before, Degrees in general are very, very theoretical. So there's things on there that I'm just kind of intimidated by, for example, computer systems and operating systems. I have a module on that and I don't know anything about that kind of stuff. And it's not anything I've had to know about, you know? So I'd even have any kind of that practical practise in that realm. Another things. Stuff like truth, tables and logic, gates and stuff like that. I understand truth tables in the circuits, but that when I first saw the light language for it, I was very intimidated and I got stressed out and I got scared and then I had to go, and you're gonna be okay. What, actually is this? And then I looked at what was all that? Oh, I know what this is. And I think with that, though, I have more experience of that in the practical sense. It just doesn't look the same, you know? So doing a masters is definitely more theoretical. And definitely more about writing. Like my final project is a written 10,000 word dissertation. I know what my project will be like. I know what it is, but the facts that is 10,000 words off writing on a computer, science schools is of it. Kind of like, you know, but other places other units had, like, 15,000 words and stuff like this. And so Yeah, I'm guess I'm giving up for do masters. If you're just trying to decide whether this is something you should do, I think you should different. Consider why you want to do it. I am. I am doing it for the reasons I said before to take back power in terms of like what? I know what I learned. Teo, give myself move. Writing where I can work internationally. Um, on DH Tio also like, you know, look good on paper so that if people are, if I get heights, for example, if I get hired somewhere and I'm being treated like scum, it's not because I don't know anything, you know. And I know that's not the case, and now it's not because I don't know anything now, but it's easy to justify, you know, um, and yet, like the specific things I want to learn in an education of ramen. So I think you should consider what are the reasons you want to do this degree. I think if you are underrepresented person minority, I don't think it will be harmful. You don't need it. I'm going to say this. I do not need this degree, Vini. I don't need it, but I want it and it will be. It will not hurt me. Having it will be useful for me to have it. It's a one year degree, two year part times. What time's part time? You know eso having unfortunately, having the paper qualification to say you know something is is still and I don't know if that's unfortunate, actually, but basically having the paper qualification is usually a sign off something, you know. So, yeah, I think if you are considered what they should do a degree or boot camp. I don't regret. As I said, they regret doing boot camp first. Andi, I think it comes down to time and money. Do you have time to do degree? I didn't when I did my boot camp. Why did it feel like I did when I did my boot camps? I did the boot camp. I didn't want to do another three years undergrad, so I didn't You know it's about Do you have time to do it? And you, um what do you stand to gain by doing that? I don't think there's much to lose, But if you can't afford it, then you really need to that way up, Why you're doing it right. So, yeah, that's that's me talking about My masters are probably do another podcast on this when I actually start. Oh, closest time when I finished. That might be wiser, because I probably won't have any time when I start. Um, so, yeah, that is that is the main topic for today. Let's get in the source. So in the source today. I'm talking to you about a PS. What is a P I last week I spoke about I don't remember now. I don't remember what I spoke about last week, but I spoke about something that required you to know What a p I wass on. I didn't explain too much in detail. What a P I was I don't think so. An AP I stands for a prize, an acronym. It stands for application programming interface. And to me there's just are my words. They're really how much meaning the way I like to think of an AP eyes like an AP is a bridge from one application to another on DH. So let's say we have Facebook is a good example. Facebook, You Khun sang directly into Facebook and you can have friends and you can have posts and you can have status is right. So in the database, every post Iraq is saved to the database. All the friends I have the connexions that safe's in the database also say which states that you can have posts. All the posts I have is safe to the database. When Facebook's public, a p I allows people to do things like Sinan said. They're upset. I created an app on this app is called Resist. Absolutely. Just read a bit off artwork. I have my war on this app is called resist and I say I want my users to be able to log in with their Facebook. So get into my resist that the way that resist does that is by using the Facebook ap I So it's a bridge that the Facebook a prize of bridge between Facebook on the resist app or Facebook on whatever APS are out there right on is basically Facebook saying you can have access to certain data with the user's permission. So with my permission, I give. That's why when you, you know, authorise a new app via Facebook, you have to give it permission to certain things you say. With my permission, I give you permission to access my post. So I give you permission to access my friends or whatever it is right on dso you be able to see the resist app will be able to see certain information that Facebook holds about me. The user Um so it's really just like a bridge on the way that bridge is access is through an AP i ke. So my resist at will have a Facebook. Maybe I can. It's important to keep that key secret because that gives you a lot ofthe privilege and power. You know, you don't want everyone to be able to access your, like uses Facebook accounts and stuff like that. So you give them a private key. And they used that key to basically open the door into Facebook on Look at some stuff. A more basic example might be, I think, last week raise example of, you know, um, a birth certificate application. You want to see you on again? Information on people that been born doctors want to get parasitic births is difficult information that would be done through an AP. So the birth certificate APP would say, Okay, we won't allow Epps who are not us to be able to access our data. So we're gonna have some public We're gonna have begun to create a public. A Pierre on all that is is a bunch ofthe end points. A type of your r u r l is a type of in points, but no old and points on you r else s o You can basically hit an end point and said When I visit this place, I want to get this data right on DH. Bearing in mind, I have the AP, I ke I want to get this data and it's how a lot ofthe service is actually doing all the work. So I have heard of striped stripe is their online payment platform that allows you Teo in includes to collect user card details and it doesn't store those card details on your server. You never stole those car details straps those those details and you can access those details via the strap. A P I paper has a similar thing when you hit pay by papal that that paid by PayPal, you often realise you're being directed be directed to paper, you know, because there's a AP and you'll be ableto the app that student redirecting will be able to connect certain data, not your card's details. But maybe they'll be able to regularly charge you for subscription that you pay for something like that. So paper have something similar. Twitter has a public a p I. When you're integrating with software like whose suite, which is like scheduling software you. The reason for its fruits sweets can post tweets on your behalf or even tweetdeck campos tweets on your behalf is because they are using the tutor appear So what you give whose sweet authorisation to do things on your behalf. Who's sweet, then has an AP I ke They they the tutor cheques that a Paki to make sure it's a legit key. I says, OK, you have a legit key. So we're gonna allow you to do this thing on this person's behalf because they said you can. So it's really just a bridge or a gateway from one cop to another. That's what That's how I see an AP I You'll see a lot more extensive explanations on the Internet, some of which I find kind of confusing talking about servers. Thie sort of that kind of stuff. If you want to know more, I like remote service or whatever. If you want to know more about that, please feel free to Google and cheque that stuff out. But in my mind, it really helps to just kind of boil it down an AP eyes, just like a bridge or a gate corridor from one lab to another allow you to access certain bits of data that they've made public or allowing to perform actions on behalf ofthe a user that has already given me permission to do so. So, yeah, that's it for this week's episode. Yeah, we're coming up to 1/2 an hour, so that's good. Trying to keep things a little bit a little bit more concise these days. Remember to follow on Twitter at Lost in the Source. Remember to share, like subscribe whatever put costs an apparition spots If I were one Google per cost to be on iTunes slash podcasts eso were about, you know, I mean, if we're not on a podcast in platform that you listen to, please let me know and I'll try my best to get on there were on soundcloud. So, yeah, follow, like subscribe and I will see you next week)
