---
title: lets_get_lost_in_pivots_&_JAMStack
blog: podcast
published: false
date: 2019-04-01 05:00:12
duration: 00:34:16
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/lets_get_lost_in_pivots_and_JAMStack.wav
---
<div class='row'><audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/lets_get_lost_in_pivots_and_JAMStack.wav' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio></div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (earlier this year or maybe late last year, I said I was going to become a contractor. I'm just gonna be very wrote. You and Booth source. I am your host Lalla. And this week's episode I'm gonna be talking about pivots in your career, Um, on learning new skills and stuff like that on DH in the source. I'm going to be talking about Jump stack. What is Jam Stack? Who is Jam Stack? Why do you even care about Jam Stack? Alex? We just learned about it this week. Also S O. Yeah, let's get into it. So I'm going to start with good news, Richard. I mean, it's not like this badge in years that there's no bad news. There's just good news, which is that I got a new job as a technical support engineer. Now, if you've been following me for a little while, you will know that earlier this year or maybe late last year, I said I was going to become a contractor. I'm just going to be very rude you and just let you know that that was a lie. I have had projects that I've done in this time A few projects. They've been pretty small things. But to say that I was a contractor Boy, I don't know if I can always say that. I can't say that I chilled for a lot of the time. I experimented of other things. I got my doubled in other things. Added workshops, dude, office hours, which I still do. Office hours on DH by officers. I just mean like, you've got a problem with your code. Anyone? An extra set of eyes. I'm basically a professional rubber duck. You're not agents of eyes on DH. I will help you for free for half an hour. That's it on. Do you know I did stuff? I was still coding, But Zalazar, contractor contracting for light, Professionally seeking out clients. That's not really something I did. There are projects I did that I got paid for, but they were few and far between, and I didn't put much effort into quote unquote contracting. So now I'm back in permanent employment. And the main reason for me being back in permanent employment is cause, as you know, going to school, um, at there this year on DH. I just want to make sure I have money constant continuous stream money. I realised that looking for clients is not something I like to do what I want to do. So, yeah. In this time, I want as little headache as possible. So let me just work for someone who's just gonna pay me when I need to get paid. Right? So that's why I've got a new job. Now. I'm a technical support engineer, which means I have pivoted slightly. I'm no longer product engineer. A product engineer is someone who works on the main products right? And builds new features, codes new things and is always quoting code in code and code and coding. I don't do that anymore. Um, I now help other people with their stuff. So if you're using opposite the company I'm working for So raku Koroku allow you to deploy your websites your web APS in a safe, easiest way. And that's it, in a nutshell. Basically, But, um, yeah, I help other people with their hats. Sir, you're using her the Harajuku platform. You run into a snag, you need some help. Um, you go. I'm gonna help you. I may be coding what I will be coding, but nowhere near as much as I may go weeks without quoting right. It's more about supporting. It's more about offering technical support, as the job title says to people that use the platform. Yeah, I'm a talk. I may I may have another episode where I talk more in detail, but like the interview process and stuff like that, because I think the interview process was pretty decent. It was definitely one of the more because I applied for a few jobs and it was definitely one of the more karma ones, at least stressful ones. Maybe because I didn't have to do a code to test. I did have to do a test, but it wasn't a code test in the way of a typical code test, so that helped a lot for me. The test I had to do was a written test, and it was just It was more analysing my ability, Teo problem solved and search for information, find information and give information in a way that's understandable, essentially, but yeah, so I've pivoted and it was totally accidental. It was no intentional, and it wasn't until halfway through the interview process for this that even seriously considered other tech jobs that I could possibly do. So why did I even apply for this job in the first instance? Um, so it was I was on Twitter and the person who is now going to be my manager, Xavier, he posted it to eat. That was basically like, Hey, we're hiring at her Roku in the tech industry who are accused a pretty big name. They host a lot ofthe websites on Web, perhaps. Right. So you know, Hiro, please begin the game and their own by self source. And so is that all right, while Hiroko's hiring, you know, retweeted it on our kind of Latin and other people might be interested in this, but also my curiosity was put right, their remote companies, and they fit like the criteria that I wanted in terms ofthe working remotely. And so I miss it. I tweeted him. And also it's like, Hey, are there any like black women? Women of colour? I can speak Teo. There are no black woman, no woman of colour on the team. So he put me in touch of a woman called Anne. And before I spoke to Annie, I did my Google's wass glass door, saying about working at her recruit. Now it's a bit hard because her focus, a subsidiary ofthe Cells, fools. And so there's a lot off, like mix up on, blend up When it comes to finding information specific to Harajuku, we and not on no information, that's like we'll have sell source if that makes sense. So I got my Google's Got grass when I saw a negative review. I do not necessary let negative views cloud my judgement, depending on what the negative says on this particular review was like, You know, women get promoted, but don't get supported in the rolls. For me, that's a red flag, and that's enough for it for me to kind of bring that up. So I I spoke to Annie, and I was just, you know, after all these questions, I don't remember exactly rocks there, but it was all questions around like how you supported as an engineer and, you know, career progression and stuff like this stuff of that nature. And she replied, as you applied in so much detail on DH was seemingly very upfront and honest. I say seemingly because I won't know until I start. But so far, so good. Sounds all right. Let me see what this application saying. Because you know what if the applications long, I may, you know, chill on that for a little while. You know, I need to set aside time, tio, apply. And, like, write out my answers And because, you know, if you have to submit a cover letter, you need dedicated time to write the cover letter and all of this. Um, And as I said, I was applying for a few jobs at the time anyway, so I looked at Operation Process, and it was dead easy. I'd ever think I needed to see a couple. It I might have, but I think I did. And it was just like a form you fill in a form with your employment history, and I was pretty much it on DH. Then any, um, referred, not referred. She gave me a rough. No. What's that thing begins where ours all she did it. Oh, she did refer me. She Yeah, she referred me. She didn't give me a reference. She referred me because I got referral from any. And I think that kind of like, makes you special in their system or something. And so the recruiters are like, Oh, that's on his birth for referred by someone who already works in. So let's listen to what they have to say kind of thing. I think I think I think I don't know. So anyway, um, that kind of was the start right now, As I said to like, I only applied because the application was easy. I got to talk to any before I applied and the emails exchange of any very honest That was important to me. But I still wasn't listening, thinking about pivoting. What I knew is that technical support plays to my strengths. I like helping people. I like deep parking problems. I like I can. I don't mind reading about stuff I've been told in the past. Back. I'm really good at keeping people calm when it's like high pressure situations. I've been told in the past, and this is by people I've worked with, not just like my mom, which my bone probably wouldn't agree. I've been told in the past that I'm good at explaining things like Experian. Difficult technical things in ah, easier to understand the way, right? So these things kind of are part of technical support, and I realised that plays to my strengths. So why not? But it wasn't on. So, like, as I said halfway through the interview process, that was kind of like, Yo, actually, do I really want to be a product? Ngeny. Is that what I really want to do? And part of me felt like not being a product engineer meant that I would be kind of betraying myself. You know, all the people that said I couldn't do it and all the people that kind of like, you know, downplayed me there. Well, right and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Poland's foolishness is foolishness. If you're if you're thinking about, you know, switching or changing up for whatever reason on you know, those thoughts are going through your head. I'm here to tell you now. Saints brethren is nonsense. So I went through all of that and I had a friend who told me yet it's us. That's nonsense On I decided to consider other things outside of product engineering on a woman who I was in contact with Tullio. Her name is Margaret. Margaret is a wonderful, wonderful person who is very light when I say people you know who are really about being inclusive. She's one of them that she's about, you know, let 20 Year give you money to do your thing on DH. That's actually how we got in touch. And when I told her that blackguard tech, we're no longer doing anything like that anymore on DH, you know, I put her in touch of other people who may benefit on DH. She liked her clothes in a message to me was like We are hiring at the moment. Please Look, our job board would love to not refer you whatever. And that was kind of like the star of me looking at outside other jobs on DH Tulio again. It's a company that I would like to look at or was one of the company's on my lists off cos I would like to Catalina Roku and a few others on DSO. Tulio, I was like Theirjob board is there. If you're looking for a job right now, please go to two alleged job boards. They are hiring. They haven't paid me tto save this and maybe I should have collected some change before I said it, but do cheque out their job board. They're hiring for a load of roles or they were a few weeks back. Coolest, but they literally have so many different type of technical rolls. So you have, you know, developer advocates whose job it is to specifically do on boarding. You have developer advocates who's who do other things, and they have, like developer educators and all sorts of things. And then that kind of light sent me down a rabbit hole. What other tech jobs up out there on book I ox tutor and I did some Google. Any have people whose job it is to just like database engineers? You have all sorts you have most of our people who do like architect architecture on I don't mean like building architecture, that software architecture, that's all they do. And these are things that were part off jobs I've done before. Items are like I've had to think about software architecture for probably like much smaller services, but I've had to think about that stuff. I've had to, you know, deal with databases. Relational, unknown relational I've had to build on, you know build them and then use them extract data from them or that kind of stuff. You have people whose job it is to just do security and all of this, and you don't necessarily think What do I? What other jobs are there for me to do until you're in a position where it's like the job you're doing right now is not meeting your needs? Whether that's your dissatisfied or you know it's a harmful situation or whatever it is, right is usually not until you need Teo before you start thinking about what else is there. And for me, I wasn't even thinking necessary. E. I wasn't even a thing off like I needed to do was just the previous Abbas and was harmful, Sure, but product engineering, as a job was still is still a passion of mine is still something I like doing on I want to do and I will continue doing just not in the same capacity, right? So, apart from the job, being like harmful, other reasons to pivot is that something new interests you, right? There's something new that's come upon the scene, a new type of job. I mean data science wasn't a job until very, very recently, right? So something you comes up and she you know that, though That's interesting. I'm curious about that. Let me see what's about. I think it's really about in those kind of instances. It's really about your curiosity, allowing your curiosity to lead you right and not boxing yourself in Not saying this is what I am. This is what I'm always going to be more saying, like Oh, that's interesting. What What's that about? Um, and that's again, like wire apply for technical support roles because I was that. Oh, that's interesting. What's that about? And applications really easy. And let me just go for it and see what happens. So when it's like new interests and even if it's not new interests definitely allow yourself to be curious. Length. Stay no lesser on top, but be present in the industry what the new waves was happening. What the new technologies. While the new industries that are popping up within tech, you know, on are they interesting to you because boxing us often is, I mean and may be fine for you but also may not be in then. You don't want to get this position where it's not. And then you're kind of like looking desperately for something new to like, you know, with your appetite. But also, it could be another reason to prove it could be like a lack of jobs in the current field. And I think this is a very valid reason. Like, you know, May. We're not in a position where, you know there are a few product engineer worlds. There are loads of product engineer rules, but it's about you know, their product engineer roles for your language or your specific skills or your experience level. That's where things kind of get like eat on DH. I was talking to a friend recently, and he's looking for a junior engineer. Roll Ruby engineer. If you're hiring and you want a junior engineer re B engineer, I know somebody get in touch with me on DH. He was asking that should he ditch Ruby and move on to jobs grates? Because there are a lot more jobs quit rolls out there. Unfortunately, as a junior engineer, you're going to find it difficult to get your first job. Like thus, no one hires junior engineers, and that's a problem within the industry when I say no, I mean that in a general sense. Obviously, there are people who hire junior engineers. But generally speaking, there are not that many junior engineer jobs, and it's a big issue within the industry. So it doesn't really matter what language none. There are like a junior engineer jobs across the board now because there are more jobs, good jobs. You may be in a position to get more junior JavaScript jobs, Sure, but should you ditch, she do not invest time in one skill or, in this case, in one language over another language. My answer to that is no on. I don't think learning a new skill or new language is necessarily pivoting, and I don't think it missing needs to lead to a pivot unless you wanted to. In this case, he doesn't want it to. He wants to. He wants to be a real engineer, which is fine, but head things to consider Ren. Learn new skill as a programmer. Your job is to programme not necessarily to be a ruby programmer or job script programmer or in support. Insert language here, programmer. Your job is to programme, which is to tell computers what you need to tell them to do what you need them to do with the best tools on best languages to do that thing. So sometimes JavaScript is going to be the language, the best language and the best tool to use to do things we needed to do sometimes gonna be really sometimes going to PiS and sometimes Java. It depends what you needed to do, right? What? It depends on what your gold is right. That's not to say you need to learn everything under the sun, but it's to say that you don't have to learn just one thing at a time. You learn multiple skills to help make you bit more well rounded as an engineer's a programme around. And so when it comes to like Lennon and you skill what I said to him is that right? You're Dune Rail's by yourself in pretty comfortable doing that. You've got a list of other projects you want to build. Pick one on due in JavaScript with your mental. He's got a mental pick one and doing jazz group to your mental. You want to lower react, pick one and do in react. So you understand how these things work, right? Because really, programming is pretty much very, very similar across the board is just implemented in very different ways, right? Ultimately, it just comes down to how computers work by passing information from an input to memory, getting information for memory, passing it to the output, doing some stuff, some basic mathematical functions, and that's it. I've really simplified programming, but I mean, this is more complicated than that. But essentially, that's what's happening under the direct. So, um, when it comes to learning new skills, learning his skills doesn't say mean you have to ditch your old skills. I'm pivot to the new skills. And then that's the thing. It just you add, you know you grow, but you grow all your skills essentially right, Um, and it means that, especially when it comes to lack of jobs. If you have job script and you have Ruby now you can apply to job script on droopy jobs, or you have job scotch, maybe on Python. Now you can just you broaden your your fishing net good in your scope. So what if you don't know what you want? to pivot to. Well, that's where Google becomes autumn. A best friend. He may be in a situation where maybe there are lack of jobs, and it's not just enough to learn a new skill. Maybe you learnt all the skills for your field on DH. You know, good food is just not popping job of availability, or you are in a situation where it's not conducive to your working. It's not conducive, Tio. How you wanna work or learn or whatever, but you don't know what you wanna go. Two things that really helped me. Google what three things Google linked in on DH Looking at companies I want to work out so tech is very, very varied. As I said earlier, there are so many different kinds of roles in tech. The above technical on non technical on When you add a non technical rose, I mean, the porters gets bigger at on DH. What I did was, I looked at cos I want to look back and looked at their job listings on DH. Looked at what they're currently Harry for within their technical world, because I want to work like I still want to be able to work in, like Technical Rose. Um, and I saw a lot of stuff, as I said on studio to your home for, like, loads of stuff on DH, then also looking at cos you don't want to look and see what roles they're hiring for going on Facebook or toe the company. I don't want to work at Facebook, so but I can still get information on what kind of rules they hire for, and see if those roles you know who else is higher for those same kind of Rose? Lipton is a good one as well looking, That's for night looking at If the companies you wanna work at aren't hiring at the moment, search those companies on it and look at who works at those companies and look at what they're what that job rose are. And you know that. Oh, so even the this company got hired for database engineer. They have, like, two or three day base engineers there so that that's something I can look out for. Let me join their mailing this door. You know, whatever service they used to send out e mails about jobs or wherever s O yeah, linked in looking at current cos you wanna work out and Google, like Google Tech jobs like that. You just had sex times into Google and you see a lot of product engineer stuff. But you may see other things as well, you see, brought posts that go into different types of tech jobs and all of this kind of stuff. So, yeah, just if you don't know where you wanna go, look at what's out there and, you know, pick one or you might find you might discover that none of this interests you don't care about any of it. And maybe, you know, you want to, like, be a lawyer or a doctor or a carpenter or something. So, yeah, that's was my rumbly version, talking a little bit about, you know, pivoting your career and why you want to verses when two is what to be, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Now I will begin intothe about jam Stack s So jam stack What is jumps that clues jumps that Claridge jumps that cassette stamps that for too many times. By the way, the jam in jump stock is an acronym. The acronyms does with jobs. Goat AP Eyes of markup. I've spoken about AP eyes in our previous episode, but basically an AP eyes. Just a way to transport data from one application to another application, all from one service to another service through K, C. T. P. S or something else. But usually through https job script is a dynamic programming language similar to room, but usually run entirely on the client there Rod Java script servers. But we're going to get into that. Just quit is usually running title of the client. My client, I mean the part off the application that uses interact with, then mark up. I had such a Google, the definition of a markup language. I know what mark up language is in practise, but like the theory e so ah, markup language, according to Wikipedia, is a system for annotating a document in a way that isn't tactically distinguishable from the text. There's a lot of words basically hitched him out is a markup language because you've got the tax, which is what we would consider an annotation ofthe document. And then you've got the text in the tags, which is not an annotation, and you can tell the difference like there's a syntactic difference between the tag. I'm the texted in the tag. Um, so that's what the jam in jam stack stands for. Right? And so jump stack websites are sites that don't have a pre built serve are they don't rely on, you know, some kind of, um, back in language that ruby or no dope ison or anything like that to get up for money. They can just be running because they don't rely on any kind of best service now. Are they truly serving us? No, they're not. There is some sort of a running somewhere, but the developer doesn't have to think about building the sermon. They just deploy this site to somewhere that's already got servers on DH. Net It do its thing and it doesn't, as I said, need any server really pre built so that the developers built but their ruby person node php whatever. It's also according to the gems that but website a site that is, um, not built with the CMS. So not word prayers. Not squarespace Drew Paul Jr wherever it's not a CMS built site, and it's also not a single page trap that uses this amorphous surrendering to build for use on the server at one time. So an example of that would be probably like a back bone. Got JS website a single page up that builds the views at run type. The point ofthe jump stack is that use a markup language to pre build the fees before the proton mint before runtime s o. The stuff is pre built on is not building when it gets one is already built. So it I guess in a nutshell, it just simplifies what needs to be done Abstracts a lot of this service stuff into AP eyes. So your forms, for example, are calling hitting a p i n points instead of hitting in points within your application. And so an example is I am currently working on a project that is very simple projects, and this is reason why I decided to use jump stack for it because it's a very simple project. They have a bunch of static pages that do not change. So there's a bunch of hard coded hates tomorrow that is not dynamic. It doesn't change. It says the same thing every time going to the page. However, they want to be able to upload documents for their members, and that's it. That's his much interactivity. As much data that they need to collect or whatever they want to be. Ableto upload documents now because I'm using Net Unify Net Laffite. Some common boys called. They really have, you know, an authentication sign up sign in service. I can just add to my static websites I'd ever need to think about authentication taking care of me, taking care for me. Great. But I do need to think about how this upload is gonna work. And I don't think just to upload a few documents a month, like a couple documents a month, I need to build up a whole server, especially because the membership is very small. The people who would be up like us one person who would be uploaded these documents. Very, very small user base. I don't need a whole server to be storey on paying, you know, people to be storing this stuff for me and running this stuff in all of this. I just need to figure out how do I allow people to upload documents and see the documents they're uploaded without building this whole big monolith app does my jumps that comes into play because I can use a service like Amazon history as the place to hold the documents on what Amazon estimate on some other places. Do that cloud in area and some other places. They say you can have a form on your website and you can send data to Amazon s three through this form Just by submitting this form, Onda form is typically how you would submit data anywhere anyway. So even if you had your own service, you would use a form to submit the data. You'd use a form to upload the data, right. So Amazon STC, you know, have a form that looks like this has all these unique things right on your website. And with that, you can uploads and data to Amazon ist me. What then happens is Amazon est restores it for you See, basically esty, can it becomes like a database kind of. But they also give you an end point. Like while you're posting, I want to get into the degree off how forms. Look what you search. You posting data to Amazon s three times honestly receives that, and then creates a nice girl so that you could access that. Think so. Whether you posted a document, for example, on you posted your coursework document and you wanted to see that document a pdf version. Amazon s Terry will give you a link so that you can see that. So then what I wanted now do is once I've posted that form, I wanna get that link on because the link is easily gettable in that it follows a certain pattern. So the name of the location of the place where you put this document on the name of the file of the document is easy then form of JavaScript. Teo, create that link every time. Ah, form has been submitted. So when off Jobs got for miss admitted, I say it's a JavaScript. When this woman submitted get the name of the file and creating this link on, then appended to the page. I hope that I hope that made sense. But essentially you're using JavaScript. Teo upend things to the page. Once a form has been submitted and posted on its posted by hitting an AP I end point. Everything else is with HTML and CSS to make it look pretty so I don't need a whole serve our whole rose application to build this thing. I can literally just use job script that Amazon s three a p i on Hastings and I've got an application now that users can use to upload things on DH show the things they've uploaded. It is great. That's what Jam Stack is. There are some other examples off jumps that websites which I may just like putting the description or something, and also more information on James Stack in general. But it's actually just a nice, an easier way to build smaller applications that most of the time don't really need all this stuff. And also benefit is that it's cheap. Or do you really keep Toho jumps back from Frito like Penny's Pretty much so, Yeah, that is it for this week's episode, folks, I hope you enjoyed Remember to follow us on full of us. Follow me on Twitter at last in the source were lost in the source on soundcloud Apple Spotify everywhere pretty much tweet me If you've got any questions shared this retweet, all of that jazz. Thanks for listening. I see you next week)
