---
title: lets_get_lost_in_ethics_&_frameworks
blog: podcast
published: true
date: 2019-03-18 06:00:28
duration: 00:30:02
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/lets_get_lost_in_ethics_and_frameworks.mp3
---
<div class='row'><audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/lets_get_lost_in_ethics_and_frameworks.mp3' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio></div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (the second she is going to burn itself to the ground if it doesn't learn how to g people to be. Welcome back to lost in the source. I am your host, Lulla. How is everybody doing? Apologies for last week, I had some technical issues of the episode was a little bit late, but we are back this week and this week I am going to be talking to you about ethics on DH Tech, and it's gonna be like a shallow step into the pool. Not gonna, like, go in depth until all of it, because there are there so much reading and so much learning to do about this topic, right? We're not gonna be able to cover it in 1/2 an hour episode. But I think it'll be We can have, like, a nice taste. The session today on DH. Then in the source, I'm going to be talking about frameworks. I think sometimes people get confused about the difference between a language in a framework on, especially when it comes to Ruby and people. People mistake Ruby in roles for the same thing or even in javascript. People mistake JavaScript. And yet, for the same thing or don't really understand the difference between you and reacts and angular. They just all sound like buzz words. Right? So in the source, I'm gonna be explaining what a framework is, So yeah, let's get into this episode. So ethics and technology, we are in a really interesting point in history where technology's moving way faster than the people who should be regulating can comprehend before we know it. There are things that are built and created that we didn't even know could be built and created. Their tools are being used in ways we didn't ever foresee them to be used on. With that comes the expletive exploitation ofthe people. You look at a company like Google who did not start out as a data mining advert based company, right? It was a search engine and they had other things as well, right? But they realised that they could make a lot of money by harvesting data and selling it to advertisers on DH. That's what they did that became their business model. That's not how they make money. The same with Facebook. Facebook. Did it figure that that was you know, the way they would make money, but they started as a social networking site for war. It was initially like people in uni, you know, like this kind of prestige site for people in uni. And then it became for everybody. And then they realised that to sell our data and, you know, or at least get advertises on the platform and that became their business model. So I think for a lot of I don't want to say I'm not. But I think for for many companies, especially many tech companies, there is this kind of progress that's happening. That's great. But the regulators are not ableto track everything the noble to lightness, say keep up on talking government regulators and also the tech industry is also still very new. So we don't even have, like, a regulatory board that we don't have a group of people that say this is OK, this is not okay. We don't have a group of people that say okay to become, you know, to be a part of this industry, you have to, you know, adhere to these rules like I don't know, doctors do like lawyers do, right? We don't have a similar thing, so everyone is allowed to be in this space and do whatever the hell it is they want to do, which raises issues and raises problems, right, as you can imagine. I mean, if we look at hit recent events, you have the Cambridge Analytica fiasco you have in a dream is off rumours. I use the term rumours very lightly, but rumours off election rigging in Russia rig in both the UK and US elections. You have privacy breaches of the NSA and Google's Ellen Data. Mike. I think Microsoft was involved in that as well. Somehow on DH, you have Facebook's host of mad and complicated issues on DH, then you know all the other companies and all the other things that fall into that pocket. Then you have the way tech companies, apart from the way tech companies exploit the users, and you have the way tech companies treat the workers. You have companies like Amazon, who are notorious in the exploitation ofthe their workers, both in the warehouses on DH, in the offices and working in tech has been known to be this kind of light, rigorous process, almost kind of like the same as you would expect and working in banking or other places. And I think you know, now it's there's a push to go against the grain. But you still have companies like recently a fintech company. Revel oot was exposed in Wired for having these really harmful working practises where the founder said he like we saw the screen shots. The founder said, If you expect to be working 9 to 5, you're in the wrong drop, and he expects his employees to work weekends and evenings, and you'd be penalised if you worked brain in mind. They're getting paid, too, just like a regular you know, 9 to 5 Job is getting pay. You weren't getting paid extremely MME. Or anything like that, right? So the exploitation goes from end to end. It's not just about exploiting users, but also about exploiting workers. And I think what's interesting is that, well, for one, a lot of people are now starting to get into tech through alternative means. Whether it's, you know, being self taught, whether it's going to a code in boot camp, with its having like a mental on the side or something, not everyone goes through the computer science route on. Also, not everyone who's in the tech space is a engineer, so you could be in the text base and be a product to develop it. I'm sorry you could be a founder, or you could be a product manager or you could be a designer. You know, there's so many different rules that make up quote unquote tech. But I think if we're gonna look at computer science a degree So I've been looking at degrees a lot recently. I'm still applying for degrees off that get into Bourke bag. Um, something that you notice is that computer science does not cover ethics in any way. So if you look at other sciences, I did psychology when I was in college. If you're American listening colleges, not university in the UK, College is the bit right before university. And the bit right after secondary school sits like that. So two year intermediary, right before you get into uni. So at college, I did psychology, Andi. I had friends who did like biology, chemistry, physics on DH sociology. And what you realise across these sciences is that your toe research methodology on part of research methodology is learning how Teo conduct research in an ethical way. Now research is integral to their sciences. This is you have to study me such like constantly. You may even have to do your own research, right? So it's important to know how to conduct research in a way that doesn't exploit the people or the animals where you know the subject and computer science doesn't really have an equivalent. And I'm not sure if that's because computer science usually leads to more. I don't want to say practical cause. I think research is very practical, but you no more. What's the word like you're you're building products rather than Leslie such basically. So I'm not sure if it's because computer science, um, Lisa jobs that require less research. But even that in itself is wrong, because when you're building the products, you need to research it beforehand, right. But I think that's really the problem. There's a day there's like a separation between Essex, which is, I guess, seen as more of a liberal arts humanities kind of thing on DH computer science. And so you have people who graduate coming into the industry, thinking they know everything, thinking that the best thing since sliced bread on DH. They just don't know how to behave. They don't know how. Teo, I don't say they don't know how to be good people, but that's really kind of weights sounds like, but they just don't know how to behave. And when you see people in tech talk, there is this air of arrogance. There is this air off. I am so smart. We talk about imposture syndrome all the time, right? But we can't lie. And we can't say that as as much as the tech industry's moving forward and being more accessible, the air off arrogance and the air off, you know, you need to be a genius to be in this food and understand this complicated thing is still very much there. I'm part of that is thinking that what you're doing is more important than what anyone else is doing. And I think that's part ofthe you know, people at Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, et cetera. I think that's part of their problem on. I think that if there was less of a decoupling between subjects like philosophy on DH, computer science or philosophy in any science, really, you would have more well rounded people coming into the industry. I mean, if you look at Western scientists and mathematicians off days before Aristotle, Pythagoras thes people were scientists, mathematicians on DH philosophers they invested thought into the way of life into how we do things. Because really and truly math, philosophy science is all connected. There is no real separation when you look at it, you know, as just looking and understanding the world around. You look at people like Galileo, who that was integral to Galileo, understanding how we opposition in the universe. Right? There was no real separation. It was a ll integrated and linked. And I think that's what's missing in the tech industry. At the moment that there is no riel link, there's a lot of separation. And so people can build products like, for example, bodega cats, which, if you've never heard of Bodega Cat research it. But it was this company, these two guys. You created this thing which essentially was intended to make bodegas go out of business. And people can build products like that without really thinking about who is this product's going to effect our part for not just who's this party gonna benefit and how much money can I make? But who is going to be disadvantaged from using this product we've seen throughout history, where unethical things. But while minorities in particular and poor people have been exploited for in a similar way, I don't see in a similar way because Bodega Cat didn't kill anybody. But we seem more serious instances where people have been exploited and its alleged death or, you know, mass illness. For example, when the scientists in America did like a bunch of syphilis test on Tuskegee men, you know, and those men were infected with syphilis and they didn't look. So we seen where this can get Teo and I don't really think we're that far. So, for example, recently, there's been this whole thing about face facial recognition software on DH. You know, at the moment, facial recognition facial recognition software cannot recognise black faces adequately, and in all honesty, I am fine with that. I don't think that's a place where we need diversity. Let the facial recognition software only recognise the white people. Why? Because we have seen how low enforcement in particular, disproportionately targets black people. We have seen how technology is not objective. Andi is influenced by the people that make the technology on DH. So if the technology is already disproportionately, if if they're law enforcement is already disproportionately targeting black people because that's just how enforcement is, then it's no doubt that the technology will also do the same thing on the technology will make mistakes as well, because special recognition software at the moment is still not, I guess, in his teenage years. So it's past its infancy, but it's not yet quite fully matured, right? And so there's the biases off the people. Creating the software is going to be impacted so even more worse when these people are not thinking about who could be affected. They're not thinking about what other ethical problems that this bit off technology is going to create. So to switch gears slightly recently, I think a question that gets asked is, you know, someone else would just build the bad stuff, so, like, if I don't do it, someone else would just do it. So I might as well just that I don't really believe that if you look at Goodwood Dragon fly Google Dragon Fly is a Chinese search engine that Google was going to build. Andi. It's a sensitive Chinese search engine, and in order to use it, users have to put their put in, put their personal details on DH essentially becomes a surveillance tool. And so the government can track literally everything you're searching for, Um, link it back to you now an American company building something like this. For a country like China, which is a draconian government and relies heavily on surveillance, they have, like a merit based system on the citizens of all of this foolishness. Like China, the citizens of China have given up a lot off their free freedom to be surveilled and for the government to connect wherever data at once whenever it wants, however it wants. And I think one of the question's when this popped out was this whole thing about Well, if Google don't do it, someone else is just going to do it. And it's like, Well, no, because Google has the power to say no and also influence other people to say no. Google is in a position where it does not have to do this thing. And how does he even look for Ah, I want to say stereotypical American company, Like when people think of Google, they do think America because it's an American company and America who's supposed to be this country of free will and freedom? How does a country that's prided itself for freedom? Look, when is doing work, especially work like this for country who's so against them and also a company who is so notoriously bad at privacy? So, you know, earlier I spoke about the stuff and selling data, how this doesn't look any kind of good for Google, and I think they've actually said they're not going to do any more because a bunch off their employees boycotted the project. And I think that's kind of where, as engineers, we kind of come into play that we can say no as individuals. It works a lot better when you have the lows of individuals. But definitely being able to say no is the power that we have been able to say. I'm not going to build this thing, even if someone else is going to build it. You don't have to be a part of it like you don't have the in. Put yourself into that or allow yourself to be imported into that. I also think that raises questions off who's a lotta Xena, and I think I'll go into that a little bit later. But actually, now go into that now, like who really is a lot to divest from Problematic Tick as an engineer, Um, I feel like I'm in a position where I can say no to build in Tech that is, doesn't fit. That doesn't align with my moral compass. Doesn't align with my ethics. Andi, I've been in a position where I had to say no, there was a job. I was working where one of our staff members are still something to be built. And the way they wanted that bill was could have been exploitative. It wasn't necessarily, and I trust that the way they were going to use it wasn't going to be using an exploitative way. But it could have been it would be very easy to use it in that way. And so I said, I'm not gonna build this in the way you want to build it. I'm gonna build this like this so you still get your feature, but it's going to be safe is going to be safer Feature on our members are users. Don't feel like don't get accidentally exploited, right? So I feel very comfortable to say that, but not everybody's in my position. If you're in a position where you are, I mean, everyone's relying on the job. But you want to the point where you know you have dependents, you have debt or whatever you need that money. And you know that saying no is going to impact that money. Then we really have to ask ourselves, How else can we divest from this? Something that's, you know, going around at the moment is Facebook Facebook. Everyone's like deleting their Facebook accounts on what have you and Facebook users are dropping and all of this because ofthe other nonsense they're doing. But I've always said I'm not sure I can tell three divers for Facebook. I can delete my Facebook account, but Facebook owns Whatsapp and my grandparents on what's up on. Unfortunately, getting my grand parents to use something like telegram or signal is going to be really difficult because what's up is cheap for my grand parents to use on all their friends and family are on what's app. So if my grand parents moved his telegram or signal they will need to get the same benefits as they do on what's up, all of their friends will need to be on telegram, a signal. All of their family will also need to be on telegram on signal. You know, on DH, I think that we really need. So when you go on Twitter and do these rants and these threats and I can negotiate spoke such an evil company, and I think that's fair enough. But we really need to. Being able to divest from things is a privilege, and I don't think that something should shy away from. And I'm not saying don't divest, definitely do if that's what you want to do. If that's an effective where you see to boycott by also, I think we need to be thinking of ways where we can help protect those who are not in a position to divers who cannot afford to divest. You know, how can we protect thes people? Alcohol could set these users. It's not enough to say, Don't work for this company. It's not enough to say, Don't use this product. We have the go one step bigger because I mean, even if you look at Amazon, I think Amazon is the most evil. One of the most evil companies out there. I will say that I do have an Amazon prime account on video card on prime video. And I do use eight of us. Not even a fast to divest from all of that. Even if asked. Toe shut all of that down. I still use streaming sites like Netflix. If I was in America, I probably have who you sank out for. This podcast. Soundcloud uses a W. S s three to store all of their stuff on another service, which I forget. The name off who Lou and I think Netflix to use aid up us is streaming platform to stream their videos online content on a whole bunch of other stuff. So even me divesting from Amazon doesn't mean Amazon's not going to get my money because I'm using other technology that relies on Amazon. I'm giving my money to other people that give their money to Amazon, right? So, in directing, my money still reaches Amazon on I think with tech. That's kind of like how this goes. A lot of these companies, especially bigger companies like Amazon like go are monopolies, right? Divesting can only go so far. So I think we're reading. It's a step outside off the book. Well, not in this house, out of the box. But look at other ways we can kind of push for ethical tech and change in this industry on DH, I feel like a way that can be done is really pushing for the government to act. So we've seen in recent times where Facebook on Google are being taken to court and having tea, and she faced the consequences. But we also see them really getting getting off, you know, they pay a fine and then is free to go. Mark Zuckerberg has been in and out of court for the last 23 years now. I mean, it's get it's getting embarrassing, right? But I really think that that is where the real change can come in needs toe happen. A lot of the stuff needs to be legislation. It needs to be illegal because that's the only way they're gonna reach. That's the only way they're gonna, you know, pay for the consequences and be provoked to change if it's in there. If it's not in their interest to do this thing or the cost of doing this thing, this unethical thing, whatever it is, is higher than the cost ofthe exploiting people, then it's unlikely that they'll do the same. My £7 a month or how much I pay for S three actually over pace in parliament for history. I play like 23 p or something. However much I pay on, I give to these companies my £79 a year for Amazon Prime is not going to hurt Amazon. Amazon could shut up shop today and still have a ridiculous amount of money in the bank. And so really, it has to be. They need tow. Companies need to be in a position to lose more than just individual contributions, but a whole heck of a lot of money. And I think the only people that could do that off the only institution that can do that is the government. The government is in a position to say the fine for this act is a trillion dollars or whatever, right, and that's gonna make companies think twice, especially if you have scapegoat companies who have already been persecuted, persecuted, persecutes that prosecuted is the word I'm looking for. Wow, Bible times if you have companies that really been prosecuted and have had to paper thing. So that is the kind of introductory introduction into ethics and tech. I think I'll probably do another episode that will go a little bit more in depth on booking a specific questions. But next we are in the source on out explaining what framework? So you're learning, huh? You're learning computer science. You know, you've been job searching and you've been doing a bunch of staff and you see some jobs say they want tohave rails, experience and some job Say they want you to have ruby experience on because, you know, you've been Googling you're seeing that rosary pea are sometimes used interchangeably. So you're like, What the hell is the difference? One is a framework on. One is a language. Ruby is the language, and rails is the framework. Most languages have frameworks. Python has a framework. Would Django JavaScript has a framework? Could actually, every day you wake up and there's a new jobs, good framework and Ruby has a few friend mixes. Well, not just rolls. Ruby has Hagino. Sinatra was well on DH. PHP has frameworks. Java has Freeman, except to accept such a most languages have frameworks right now. What is the difference between the language and a framework? The first thing I'll say is that the framework is usually written in the language. Sir. Rails is written in ruby, So if you know Ruby, you'll be able to read rails code right. If you know Java's gut, you'll be able to read the source code off React. For example, The framework provides you essentially your building blocks your skeleton for usually a Web app. So I use the Rose example. The rails gives you a bunch of files right off the books, so it structures your your foul structure, your folder structure, in the way that a Web app for the structure in Ruby should be structured. I said, structure way too many times, but you get my gist, and then it gives you the files that you need. So it knows that you need a roots file for all your roots. It knows that if you tell, it will give you your specific control a file. I'll give you your specific model files. It will create a schemer for you. And you don't have to compose thes fouls. And so, as you can imagine, imagine, you are building, you know where perhaps constantly, all the time, all the time, all the time. You don't want to make each individual file every single time and, you know, structure. Make sure the right files and right boulders, right borders and the right boulders and etcetera all the time. Every single, every single time, right? You just want to be able to run a command and have it Generates everything you need. And essentially, that's what our friend were kids and also frameworks. But such Israel's give you nice little helpers so that you can do things easier. So rails, you know, has a few date helpers to help you understand dates and stuff that I don't think for Ruby has. Or maybe it does know. But yet there's some discrepancies between JavaScript. Frameworks are a little bit more. I don't say complex because you know, different Jarvis, get free marks, do the same thing in different ways, or do different things in different ways. But essentially, it's the same thing. A framework is just be is just a bunch of files to do a specific thing. Sometimes that's building a server. Sometimes that's building a Web app with jobs. Sceptics, usually about building a Web app. You know, with Ruby can be about either building and a P I or building their way back now. So yeah, I hope that made sense. If it doesn't, please ask me more specific questions. I think next episode I will be doing a question. And that's episode. So send me your questions. Definitely. Send me your questions. I've gotten a few questions already. Thanks, Joy. I will be answered them next episode next week. This has been lovely. Follow me on Twitter at Lost in the Sauce. Oh, also, I do want to say before I go, I wrote a post block post week and 1/2 ago. So maybe last week, sometime about types statically typed languages, dynamically types, languages. And I think I'll be doing more blood personal things that I can't explain or that's easier to read rather than me verbally explaining on the podcast. But this broad post was included on the Intel Ajay website. So if you haven't read it, our link in the description is about statically touch languages and dynamically tapped languages. I'm learning java at the moment, which is aesthetically typed. Language on DH really has my heart, which is a dynamically taps language. So I'm learning about the court and interesting differences of that. So yeah, if you want to read that I would think that in the description and follow us on Twitter at lost in the source share like Retweet this poor cost on. And I will see you next week. Bye.)
