---
title: lets_get_lost_in_propaganda
blog: podcast
published: false
date: 2019-03-25 04:00:29
duration: 00:37:45
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/lets_get_lost_in_propaganda.mp3
---
<div class='row'><audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/lets_get_lost_in_propaganda.mp3' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio></div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (the Internet is a treasure trove off evil, and I just feel like nobody's doing anything about it. Hello and welcome to the Lost in the source. I am your host Lalla. And if this is your first time listening to lasting source, this is a podcast where I talk about my journey from tech things that interest me in the tech world at the moment things that grievances as some of the episodes of pretty much awe. And you just kind of my journey on DH in the source Towards the end of the episode, I explained something technical. I try my best to explain in layman's terms if you're new here. Welcome. If you're returning listener Welcome. Today we are going to be talking. I say we you know, it's really just me. Today I am going to be talking about propaganda. I'm going to be continuing on the ethics topic that we started that I started last week on DH. Looking at how tech perpetuates propaganda and promotes it on in the source instead of me explaining something technical. Well, I might still explain something technical, depending on what the questions are. But instead of me explaining one technical thing, I will be asking some questions that people have boxed me on Twitter on If you do you have any questions, technical or otherwise feel free to tweet at lost in the source or my personal handle. Lalla Lalla, Andi. All that's where handles and stuff will be below. But yes. Oh, let's get to today's topic. Propaganda. Um, I guess recent. Yes, there's been I don't even want to call it a rice. More like a resurgence ofthe hate hate speech. Hey, actions Just hate Onda. Think Tech has had a really, really big role in that. Whether we like it or not, because media in general is a is a major tool in further in a message, whether that's a positive message or a negative message, our newspapers are complicit. Literature, TV. All of that stuff is complicit in furthering a particular message on before, you know, the age of the Internet that was still happening through newspapers and, you know, word of mouth and whatever else messages were being spread. So this is not a problem that I think is unique to tech, but I think it's a problem that tech has, um, played a role in spreading on a scale that we've probably never seen before. Like on a huge mass scale S I'm going to go into that a little bit. First, I do want to, like, say that there is some good and some bad. You know, there was some good in the attic. There are companies who are, you know, seeing the issue, saying we're not gonna stand for that. For example. Slack recently said that they are not going to allow hate groups to use their tools to organise. And I think that's where powerful this lack has their own issues. But I think that message is very powerful on other companies. Is what I have said similar things in terms of hate groups organising or using their tools and platforms to further a hateful message. I think that is a positive thing, and it's a good thing by also we don't have enough companies doing that. You know, before I continue, I just want to say that my laptop fan is going nuts and it probably has something to do fact that haven't switched off my laptop in probably like, a month or so. So if you can hear that kind of leg hissing in the background. It's my laptop friend. I apologise. So yeah, So terrorist groups in general. I'm talking about all sorts of terrorist groups. Al Qaeda Isis. I saw all of them Boko Haram have used the Internet to further their message. They used the Internet to recruit in the same way. You know, positive organisations and good organisations have used the Internet to approve and to spread a hopeful and positive message. Terrorist groups have done the same and I think a really famous case, at least here in case that ocean Milo Begum and her two friends, who when they were 15 they were recruited by Isis become Isis brides. And also they are not the only people who've been created online or there any Isis brides whose dish has been in the news a lot recently. And so they were recruited online when 15 to become Isis Prize and they went to Syria on DH, married into might into the group on DH. Two of them were killed while they were there and she was in what was left and recent a whole controversial thing about whether she mama should come back to the UK should be allowed to come back to the UK on it's been a whole thing, right? But terrorist groups have used the tool, have used the Internet on social media, in particular to further a message onto a crew and to teach on young people and also older people. Right? And I think the government, at least the law has done, has tried to do a job off, like circumventing that off diminish in that so that, you know, got people that they're watching, tracking and following. And, you know, there are rules around, um, sharing explicit terrorist media. Now what we consider terrorists in and of itself is racist, because we know that only applies to people who look a certain way on. That's really it. It doesn't apply to white men, doesn't plan to. White women, doesn't practise why people. But if those people are not white, then with term terrorist applies to them, and it seems to be easier to deal and to tackle terrorism that is not white, if that makes sense. And so the law has done or has tried to do their role in circumventing that stuff on because the law has tried to do something about that. Um, social media networks, like sort of like Facebook et cetera, have also tried to, you know, back the law up in that way. So unless you really go looking for Isis related content on that recruitment videos, it's unlikely it's just gonna pop up in your newsfeed. It's unlikely you're gonna be on ready and you're just gonna say, Head, you're just going to see a post that says, Hey, why don't you, you know, come and be a part of Isis? That's really unlikely. However, it's not unlikely that you will see a message that says, Hey, fuck black people unless you're with blacks or, you know, the frog mean thing. I don't know what that's all about. It's not unlikely that you see swastikas just pop up when your news feed and your timeline. These things are not unlikely, but they are also terrorism is a very specific things. I'm not going to call them terrorism, but they are also hate speech to a particular group of people that has led to death on has leads to killing, most recently the the Killing and Christ Church, New Zealand Witch it was a slaughter on DH. Just a very sad case, unfortunately, is no case is not issue that is in isolation, right? So over the last hours, say, 10 years, there have been cases where the perpetrator is not brown or black or off colour and even really like that. But it is not, basically is a white person on DH. They have been able to go into places of worship, churches, mosques, et cetera, and kill people on the that. The the thing is or I don't say a thing. But the kind of like headline is that they are learning wolves, and I want to pose a question right a lot off their radicalisation happens on my and I think that we underestimate the power ofthe community. We we are. It seems like we're still unclear about what community means. A lot of people who have maybe not had friends in real life or who have been socially outcast in your life. Whether that's, you know, socially outcast because of their gender or sexuality, socially outcast because of the type of work they do, whether that sex work or whatever else kind, ofwork, socially outcast because of you know, disability or whatever have been able to come online and find communities find places where they are accepted where they are loved, but they are cared for. And I think online communities are just as powerful as offline communities, communities where you can you find people who showed us. And humour is you have the same interests as you who enjoy and love the same things and hate the same things as you do. That's really, really powerful. And when we categorise thes murderers as loan walls were saying that they throw off this all by themselves, They had no accomplices. They had no community around them. They were socially out cost to the point where they had nothing. And that's not true. They aren't known walls because they do have a community. They have a community where they go on. We see this a lot on Twitter. We see this on Facebook. We see this on Reddit pretty much any popular platform. And they even have their own social media networks like fortune where they organised and they do stuff right and they talk about the things that they care about. Excuse me, right. And so it is misleading and disingenuous to deposit these people as alone walks when they do have a community. And we have to really take into account the role that these platforms play in radicalising quote unquote learn walls and radicalising people who may not be murderers but are hateful radicalising people who you know will throw a neck in your face because you wanna hit job or radicalising people who feel like it's okay, Tio, you know, you slurs on racist terminology and all those people are not going to kill those people who are gonna be in our schools. And when I say I'm not going to kill, I mean, probably because they don't have the They don't have the tools to kill, maybe, or they feel like killing is too far right. But they don't feel like all the other hateful things too far. So these people are going to be in our schools as we've seen. These are people who are gonna be in our law enforcement, as we've seen on lawyer law enforcement can kill on, does kill. And these are gonna be people who the army not hospitals in our courthouses, everywhere on DH. When you think about the same way that you go on to Teo Binge Watch the layers. Shonda Rhimes epic someone else goes on Switzer Tio, you know, talk about how much they hate this particular group of people now. Recently, I mean, there have been notable, uh, what you call it. They have been notable cases. Gates. I'm particularly that have happened that have couldn't question how much is Twitter actually doing Facebook, Reddit, YouTube, whoever. How much are they actually doing to stop this and so can a curb it game again is a good example where women fell and never felt when they were attacked and abused on the side. And there wasn't anything done by Twitter to mitigate that to help that I think those stuffed down in the off the moth. But while it was happening, it was just kind of a free fall. And I think that's a common thing, right that while it's happening, it's just a free for all. But there are no preventative measures on. There are the stuff that's done after the fact is usually not well for touts, right? So what happens use you get these blankie generalist adaptations to the terms and conditions which end up catching people who are doing something good, end up catching activists who are fighting for something good and, you know, censoring the wrong people instead of censoring the people who need to be sensitive on DH. It may be the case that out ofthe people who are sensitive, most people are the negative people. But the optics doesn't look like that, right? The optics isn't doesn't seem like that, right? And so I actually really think that it is important for social media companies in particular places where people can commune and just be two. They need to realise. I think that they are governing. They have the govern a large group of people that cross nations on DH who out offline, have their own laws and rules that they are governed by. And they are coming into this common space, um, together. And they need laws or rules that they will vet that they need to be governed, too on DH. Unfortunately, Jack doesn't have the capability to do that, Jack Oh, Mark or whoever else they do not have the capability to govern people they just don't. And especially when you consider that. I mean, Mark Zuckerberg in particular, is in it for the prophet, and Jack is also in it for the profit, right? So they're not in a position to govern people. So social media companies actually need departments that consist of like legal teams that consists off people who are well versed in how communities are kept safe, to really help them construct terms and conditions that do not sense of the wrong people and that also promote safety above anything else on When I say promote safety, I don't mean that people should feel that they can say what they want to say. But I mean that in the sense that if you speak in a way that is hurtful, you will have consequences to face which at the moment is not the case, right, and also having some nuance, right, like me saying, Oh my gosh, I could just die is different than me, saying I want to kill myself two completely different things, right? And when you read them in context, when you see them in context, you'll be able to see the new wants to be able to see the differences, and I think that's what's will be lacking. And I think yes, social media companies need departments that consist of these legal slash community teams that could do this stuff because they're not well equipped. And I think a lot of people think that if the teams of divers, then this stuff would be easily mitigated. And I think there's some truth to that. Like if you have people who are part of an oppressive group on the team, there are holes that they would have been able to see prior tio, you know, features and stuff being built. However, I don't think diversity is thie only or even best solution. In this case, I think diversity is important and should be happening. But I think an actual like targeted, dedicated group of people whose job it is to do this thing is the important thing, right, because when we actually think about it, social media is a tool that, as I said, people who've used to promote messages right and so it's even making the promotion of those messages even more dangerous, especially when you consider how activism because of, well, the hate that's going on in the world. Social media has made activism so much more accessible on DH. So much more tangible way can see it. Mohr on the largest scale, too. And it also means that activism is becoming more dangerous because activists now have multiple ways a mortal avenues to share their message. And what that means is that more people are seeing their messages, Uh, on more People who disagree with their messages are seeing their messages. And so we have people like Maria Franco was a Brazilian activists who was murdered, assassinated last year. I think it wass on DH. She was assassinated the day after she posted on Twitter about police violence in reddish General. I did not say that I'm sorry if I have any Brazilian listeners. But she was assassinated after she posted about police violence on Twitter. On it is said that the bullets that killed her were bought by the federal police. Now, when you consider the fact that her message, you know one day she said something about the police and the next day she's killed by police bullets, she said something on Twitter about the police, and then the next day she's killed by police bullets. We although the killing obviously did not happen on Twitter, but we really dissipate a role. She was able to promote a message on DH. Let it reach so many people. And she had been doing this. That wasn't you. Um, unfortunately, she died because of it. And I think that although Toto couldn't have prevented her death, she was also like getting death threats on Twitter. You know, like many activists do get death threats and stuff on Twitter. And I think it's I could have done something to prevent that. We see so many times activists and people who do good things, their lives are threatened. Another person is so very, very recently literally like within the last week, I would get her name. I think her last name is Margaret. I forget the surname started a petition on the governor UK side to get to revoke Article 50. Don't know, Article 50 years is basically, um and the UK we are. The world is so messed up right now, man, Article 50 is basically the UK saying we went out of the U um, two reasons going for a lot right now. I have no sympathy for her there. Honestly, what she is going for a lot anyway. A lot of people do not want Article 15 a lot people one Article 50 to be revoked. A lot of people don't want Brexit. And so this woman started this petition and it has reached over five million signatories only needed 100,000 to be debated in Parliament has reached over five million and she's on holiday somewhere. She tweeted the other day and she's like, I'm on holiday on getting death threats Or she did was start a petition on DH. That was her activism to start petition and she's been getting difference through social media through email through all of this stuff. And I just don't think that our social media companies are doing enough to stop that kind of behaviour. We have a lot ofthe bots whose job it is literally their only job as a body is to spread hate those butts shouldn't exist. And I think I understand that it might be difficult to curb that behaviour, but I think it would be a lot easier to cut that behaviour if there was more more regulation in place, right? S O. Yeah, I think I kind of feel like that was a little bit rambling back. I hope you can again, one saying, In terms of the role that social media in particular has played in spreading propaganda on DH, these communities are meaningful, right? Like these places are meaningful. These these are places where you go to feel included. And if you're feeling, if you could go on Twitter as somebody who is hateful, I feel included and feel like you have a community. That's a problem. Like if you can go on on Facebook and feel like, yeah, I have my community off hairs off, Nazis off whatever else that's a problem on. I think a lot of people, when you know you start to talk about kerb in this stuff, that's that's kind of feel like, Oh, but you know, freedom of speech and blah, blah, blah grin. You know, Candace Owen should be allowed to say whatever she wants to say, And Donald Trump should be allowed to say whatever he wants to say. And I think you're right, your kind of struggling a really fine line, because what they are saying is hateful and sure. People should be allowed to say what they want to say. But just because you're not to say what you want to say, it does not mean you don't face consequences for saying those things right. If I called you a bit, which I don't know why I said it like that, I was going to say if I called you a bitch *** and enough, or should I say ***? Because there might be no black people listening. But actually, I'm black, so it doesn't really matter if I called you a bitch. You'll be upset at that on. If you slapped me in response to equal in your bitch ***, that will be the consequence off me calling your pension ago. Because why am I calling you that? Right. So just because you can say whatever you want to say does not mean you should say what you want to say. Whatever you want to stand does not mean there are consequences. If someone says a racial slur, that's illegal crap. That's a crime like you can get prosecuted for that and doesn't impact your freedom of speech. You still have the freedom to say we're gonna say, but there are consequences, and I just don't think social Media has enough consequences for spreading hate. So, yeah, that's kind of that's kind of like the just off what I'm off. How I feel like tech has perpetrated propaganda obviously goes a lot deeper than this on a lot more, a lot deeper and wider, right? Because then you have to consider what is hate speech. Who is who is Thie? Who's the recipient off the page Hate speech, At which point does something that's just like a bad idea or like just rude, become hateful? I have my thoughts on that, obviously, but my thoughts on that may not be the consensus right on. Also, who should be in the rooms when thes things are being decided? When these, especially when you consider that, as I said, you have people from all sorts of different countries. Nations were different. Things are legal in different places. You should be in the range on these things are being decided. I think that we've bitten off more than we can chew, and it comes Teo Online communities. But I also don't think the damage is irreparable, I think, but it's not too late to do something about it. So yeah, that's that's it for the main topic this week. Let's get into the source. All right, so in the source this week, I will be answering some questions that I was artist on Twitter. If you don't follow me onto Tico Fuller at Lost in the Source, or you can follow my personal account, yes, I'll arts these questions for our out of them. The the 1st 1 is tech predictions in the next five years. On my tech predictions in the next five years, I don't really think I have many tech predictions at all in terms of predictions that it rainy look a like the industry as our whole usually like. I don't look at the tech industry. I kind of more like gadgets and stuff. But phones have become very stagnant. Recently, the most interesting phone or the friend that I liked the most, which I actually ended up buying, so was the S 10 e. I think if you if you are interested in gadgets and you want me to do like an episode just like my favourite gadgets, I will be glad. You know, I might just do that, but the S 10. He's a great friend. Before that, the friend that got me excited was a firm that came out two years ago. The one plus three t in Midnight Black the limited edition with that black one on. Before that, it was like No, sir, before that was the essay than the Midnight Black sweetie. And before that, it was the whys. What's this company called? I love them so much of the EM seven. Whoever was that made them seven and that was it. Like phones haven't meeting gadgets in general, has they haven't really bit. It's me recently on. Don't know too much about the tech conditions to kind of give predictions, but I guess something I think will happen is another social media platform will rise up. Um, basically bragging that is the new whatever on DH is better than the old wherever, because it it has excellent said features or has X Y and zed conditions. I think that's possible within the next five years because I think to turn Facebook car, they become a stagnant and boring as well. Um, I'm also kind of interested to see what happens in the waters. Off line technology just seen how how that advances, how people can stay connected without really being connected, like without being connected to the Internet. Like I'm interested to see to see that happening or what happens in that space, because I think something could on DH, who are my tech role models. Uh, this is gonna sound really corny, but my friends, I don't mean you have, like, there are people in the industry. I'm kind of like, Oh, my God. Um, this person, um I would probably say my friends, my friends are awesome. My friends who are like, into text off my friends who are learning more about tech A derrick of one who are, like, who basically come from a world. I mean, my friend of one, she's like, she's a bad gala, like in general anyway. But who basically come into, like, code in particular because they both come from tech backgrounds, but who've come specifically into software engineering with kind of like, OK, I wanna learn this thing on they really Black Bay have just gone for it. And I think that means that even I think that's when he inspiring to me. I mean, yes, I did the same thing. But like it's different when you're not in that space anymore. And you see someone else do it. And they just remind you that yo, yeah, learning is hard, but also necessary on can be fun. So, yeah, I think they're inspire. And then, like my friends Dan and Chima, who are engineers, birth JavaScript engine is actually on there. Just, really, really, really, really supportive, like, so supportive. I kind of came to be as supportive as they are. I can actually talk to them about anything. Do anything. Ackerman. I did buy them there. Listen, and I aim to be that level of support pretty much. Andi asked me stuff, too. It's like a two way street. You know, I'm not some leech home. And then my friends Angie, who is like, probably one of the most he's probably listen to this. I don't know if I should have said his latte for government, but a TJ. He's like one of the most talented engineers I've met in life. That includes people I've worked, and I've worked with some really talented people, pretty much everyone who was at the degrees on the tech team at eight Degrees Denny on Drew, Barry, Sindy and all the new people that I don't know, led by Becks, who's a woman. Hey, you don't see that much, But yeah, Genji is like an amazing engineer. He actually haven't up on the app store. If you are into sports, this is free plug because he's my friend. But if you're into sports, you like you have a team. When I'll organise your team, you wanna stay in touch ofyour team when I shared pictures you want organise tournaments and games, you wanna chat? He does have an app for that and it's called Teammate is available on Iris on 100. He developed the android one dot the android one by him, all on his lonesome on DH. It's an amazing app, like I have it on my phone and I don't do anything sports related at all back at over like Jim. But yes, I'm reading me good app. You can search for local events in your area. You could organise games A said tournaments is why you can chat. You can share media pictures, videos, whatever or within the APP is like a border one system so going down a road that, if that's like your bag also randomly. I think there's like a team on there that, like organises gigs like music that rehearsals and stuff said. They're like a band. I was, I guess it's being used for other purposes, too. Bands as well can use it. Um, so, yeah, those are my role models, my friends on my role models. Would I create a startup? I would create a startup, and I have ideas to create a startup. I do not have any desire to manage anybody. So I doubt my like, I want my start up to be Stop that does one thing like, I don't necessarily want to start up. I want to create a product and I want my products to do one thing. And I wanted to do that one thing really, really, really, really well. And it just does that one thing and it doesn't well, and so people feel like, Yeah, I don't mind paying for this. Um, and I want the only employees off that product to be myself and possibly a partner, and that's it. I don't want I don't want like a whole company. I'm not trying to build the next Amazon or wherever else I'm really not. I do believe in providing jobs, so it's possible that that one thing could provide jobs to other people in some way. But I I don't want to hire anybody to do anything in that same way. Like I just want to sell this one thing and Senate Good. A good example of that is this woman I follow on Twitter called Stephanie home hurled. But Stephanie Hurlbert her at is as S E. Hurlbert S E Herbert on DH. She runs a company, could buy normal bye bye. No meal binomial. I don't know why I call say what's today? She runs a company called Binomial on DH. I have no idea what they do. It's some kind of like image compression thing. And she saw sister life major corporations big cos you've got, like, big money, right? And it's her and her partner. It's not like this whole big huge company, and she lives off that and, you know, when she talks about her schedule and it's quite flexible because it's just her while her and her partner, right, So things are a little bit more flexible things could be moved around. And that just sounds I deal to me. I want to build an image or, you know, an image compression system type thing. Type products that does one thing, does it well, and I can send it, so Yeah, I guess I don't have that really Answer your question. No, I don't want to build his thoughts up. I guess I want to just put a product that can sell on DH. Then I was axed. What pushed me towards Tech? I have a degree in literature and creative Ryan. Well, actually, my degrees in creative writing and English nature job English teacher was my mind. Craig Wright was my major. What pushed me towards that? Um, I was broke. I came off wolves. I left you need did not have it next. You don't find out. So, like, this is it, Guys, he's all over. Jackie on. That was it was all over. So I was on Jobseeker's allowance. It's not called Jobseeker's allowance any more. I don't know what it's called now, but its benefits um and I needed a four. Okay, I can't be a poet because purchase does not pay on. So my next thing was to be like a journalist. So I was like, Okay, I need a website to showcase all my right in or the different kind of right, and I can do. Um and I was on Josie goes out, so I couldn't pay anyone to build it for me. So I was like, Fine. I learned how to build this thing by myself. I went on co academy, and at the time it was hundreds set free. There was no proof. It was just all free. So literally I had the world at my fingertips. I saw all these languages and I was just that Oh, my God. And I had a lot of time because I was unemployed, you know? So I had a lot of free time on my hands on. I started off like, Hey, c'mon, CSS because that's what I needed for that. So I thought I needed for my website. But then I started, like branching out into other things. And then I got into Ruby and the rest is history, as they say. I love Ruby with all my heart and my soul. Although java is a beautiful language, I will put out that Java is a beautiful language. Very special is a beautiful language to learn object oriented programming in. If you don't know what objects are into programming is I have an episode about that. A few episodes back explained. What object oriented programming. So go listen to that. But yeah, it's definitely beautiful language knowledge or object oriented programming. That's attention. I That's how I got. That's how I got pushed into tech. I started learning Ruby. I found a love of Ruby. I did a boot camp. Then, after boot camp, I got back on Jobseeker's allowance. And then I got a job in two hours away from London, which was not nice, but yeah, that's that's how I got into Tech. Andi, That's it for the questions today, folks, if you have any other questions you want me to answer, feel free. As I said at lost in the Organs, they lost them the horse you know, matting at lost in the source on Twitter, on DH at Nalla, Oglala onto Tazewell and pretty much everywhere. So yeah, thanks for listening, folks. That is it for this episode. I will see you next week)
