---
title: my_code_bootcamp_experience
blog: podcast
published: true
date: 2016-11-04 09:45:52
duration: 00:22:18
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/my_code_bootcamp_experience_1.mp3
---
<div class="row">
<audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/my_code_bootcamp_experience_1.mp3' class="col-md-12">
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio>
</div>
Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (Jobseeker's allowance sounds amazing, cause it's money the government gives you because you're unemployed. But I kind of feel like the mental Sze are behind the whole job centre benefits system. I'm sure, like Voldemort has a big role to play everyone and welcome to lost in the source. It's good to be bad for gift. My nasal sander force. I'm sick. So I made a parts to blow my nose and, like, you know, clean my eyes at some point because sinuses are a mess right now, but yeah. Um, today we're going to be talking about my boot camp experience and how I found that whole thing. It has higher than lows on. I'm going to be leaving that names off. Um, call pricks, so to speak, just for the sake of, like, I just can't be bothered or any black drama or anything like that. But it probably won't be difficult to find out who they are. Especially if you've heard my storey before. On especially if you know, you've previously asked me Oh, where did you go to DEA boot camp. And I've told you, um, Andi, probably like on my CV or something. Anyway, so Yeah, boot camp. So let's start at uni. I did creative writing and English literature, and uni was a blast. I didn't have any friends on DH. That doesn't sound is bad as it is. Like it not having friends wasn't terrible, that's all. It was actually pretty all right. I didn't have any uni friends. I had, like, real life friends. So after uni, I graduated on DH. That was all amazing, except for the fact that I didn't have a drop or have any jobs lined up. And that was because I wasn't looking. That is just cause I was looking and not getting anything. My writing was good. My writing still is good. I think I haven't done much of her recently. Um, but yeah, no one really wanted to, like, hire me, so that kind of sucked. So I thought to myself that if I had a full blown website, I'd be able to get hired, and, you know, I'd get all the calls and that the Guardian and the times and whoever would like, pick me up and I'll be in a amazing writer. Um, obviously, things didn't happen that way, But what ended up happening is that in deciding to build my own websites, I learn how to code. Basically, I couldn't afford to pay anyone toe code the website for me because I was on Jobseeker's allows at the time. But for those of you who don't know, Jobseeker's allowance is what Who Jobseeker's allowance sounds amazing cause it's money the government gives you because you're unemployed. But I kind of feel like the mental Sze are behind the whole job centre benefits system. I'm sure like Voldemort has a big role to play because the whole process is pretty so sucking. It is pretty horrible. So that wasn't a good time. But, um, I learned how to cope because I couldn't afford to pay anyone to do that on DH. I discovered, like the AEL these other languages. So I can, I thought was just like Hatim al CSS and then everything else was like super intense and super math C. And then I got on co academy, my favourite learning to code website. Everyone should be Concord Academy and those that hang on a minute. I don't even have to know what two plus two is to do this bit of Java script. And I don't have to know my times, tables or algebra or, like, you know, grafts to, like, know how to code and re because it looks a lot like English. And so that was like a mind alone moment. It was amazing. And so I just started exploring and co academy was free, which is amazing and just the ideal price for around that time and still is the idol price for not because free is always good. Mostly good, usually good. And so, yeah, I just began Teo kind of explore in that room and just decided, like, one day, I was kind of like, What if I could do this as a career? Like, how would that look like, what would I need to do to do this professionally? And I started Googling and researching on one of the first things. I mean searches like, Okay, how much do these people even make how much the code is even make? And I saw the figures on I was dumbfounded. I was just like starting salary 25 k. That's ridiculous, cause I was at the time looking at jobs that were like 18 k 20 cave. I was lucky. And that was like Rifi mon, 20 km wealthy. I am rich, but yeah. So the money was really good, Because if you're starting at 25 then everywhere red was like pay increases and pay rises are ridiculous as well in the industry. So I was like, Okay, fine. Actually, this works. What do I have to do that? What qualifications do I need to become a developer? And I just started realising that you don't need traditional qualifications. You didn't need a degree or engineering degree because that was my main concern. I didn't want to go back to uni for another 3 to 4 years to get back a computer science degree. There are boot camps that were popping up, and I thought, Wow, boot camp. Three months in the training. And essentially, you learned the basics. You learned the cause to be at least a junior developer on as that. That sounds amazing. That sounds ideo. So I decided to go for it. Now it's so important to research your options If you want to become a developer, if you want to go into coding research, your options, like maybe university is better for you because you learn a wide variety of things. You learned loads of different things instead of one thing really intensely. And that may give you better choice to decide. Like what you actually want to do. You know, maybe a boot camp is more suited for you because you are. Do you know what you want to do? And you just want to focus on this one thing and do it well or well enough. And so just research Google, find the right boot camps for you. The right courses. Figure out what the curriculums are for. Different boot camps compare because you're paying a lot of money for this. So you need to be able to compare and get the most bang for your buck. Um, so I did a lot of research, and I decided to go to this one place and we'll call this place the Red House. So I decided to go to the Red House on DH Essentially what? This place? What won it over for me was the fact that the Red House offered you three months paid work experience on the back off the few months off coding of learning how to code since the last six months in total. And I just look, that was amazing because no one else really offers that. No. Now offers that at all. And that means you. Well, that should have meant that you also get support in looking and finding a drop, Looking for finding a job, which was I deal because the whole reason I was in this predicament in the first place is because I couldn't get a job. So the tutor took a real big chance of me because I was then least knowledgeable out of everyone who was in my cohort like compared to everyone else. I was like the novice off the novices, Andi. And so it was like a gamble for him because it may have been like I mean, he would have still got my money anyway, but it may have just been like a waste of time. So anyway, I start this thing and I'm super excited, and I'm like, woo woo new chapter in my life And it feels like, you know, and you just like and a really bad relationship. And you've got this new lease oflife and just want to do everything and accomplish all the things you cut your hair. It was like that, except I didn't cut my hair. Um, but I had that new lease oflife and are super excited. And then I started on DH. Everything just got super real Coding is hard. Coding is difficult, and I found it really difficult when I started. And I would because I'm so used to like independent learning at Union Off. The stuff we had to do was independent. You write alone, read your books alone, essays. All that stuff is done alone. You have seminars off course, but typically was like independent learning. So I went into the boot camp with that mentality, and that was actually a big mistake for me. I shouldn't have done that because coding is also very communal. It's about asking the right questions on getting the answers that you need. It's about helping other people. It's about people helping you. It's about, you know, just learning off of people. There's a role, share and culture in particular code and communities. I can't speak for all of them. I can speak for Ruby on Ben Ruby. There is quite a bit of a sharing culture. But because I went in to have an independent mind set, I felt like the 1st 46 weeks were terrible for me. It was absolutely horrid. I was doing very, very badly, and I'm not used to failing. And I'm not used to finding things difficult either. So this was just like, Oh my gosh, what am I doing? I've made a huge steak, I'm a failure, and I was having all these really bad thoughts, and it was coming across my workers. Well, my work was just terrible. And then, you know, the half point if you came and my Tito is just like, you're doing really badly what's going on. And I was just like, it's so hard, What do I do? And he was just, like, just ask, like, if you're finding it difficult, just ask me. And I spoke to some of my other colleagues and peers and they were also finding it difficult. And that comforted me not because they found it difficult and, you know, weren't doing amazingly either. But just because I wasn't the only one, it meant that this thing wasn't it wasn't like, you know, because I was no intelligent or anything like that. This was Everyone finds code in difficult ever friends coding hard. So I start After that, I started asking questions. I started, like, you know, really trying to get the answers. I need it. If I didn't understand something, I would ask. And that's definitely the way to go with this. I would like with coding. So after that, you know, things started to pick up and look up, and I did well, my final assignment, and I presented its a whole bunch of like developers and industry people. And then it was time to start to do interviews on DH. The five of us in the cohort for all of us wanted to get jobs after through the the Red House on DH outs of before, I was the only one who didn't get a job, and I was also the only black woman. Although the cohort was quiet, multicultural on the gender balance was decent, but still it was like I was the only one who didn't get a job at my cheetah. Time was like, You know, I don't know why you're not getting a job, because your interview technique is really good. Your work is good. You're like a ball and all of this, You know, all this good stuff that meant I should be getting a job. And I just wasn't even when I was the last person to possibly get a job, it was like I wasn't getting it, so I ended up working for the Red House. Now, the waiver work experience goes is that they place you in a client company, which is what the interviews are for on DH through that they also get a senior developer. So they get a junior developer on the senior developed on the senior developer is kind of better. Coach. Did you develop in their new professional role now because I was working for the Red House? Um, it meant that there was no real chance of it becoming permanent. Or maybe there was. But I knew for a fact that this isn't what I wanted to be Permanently. I wanted to be doing different kind of work. Um, so I was looking for my own jobs, you know, I was trying to get interviews and emailing my CV out and all of that stuff on DH, they were at the time. They were supposedly also looking for jobs for me. Then I got sick. I get migraines, which I think are linked to stress. But the doctors don't know what is at the moment. And so I got migraines. And then I also got like a really bad case of the cold or flu or some sort, very similar to what I have now, actually. So I was out for a few days, about 2 to 3 days, and then I got back to work and my boss took me out for lunch on over lunch. He told me that basically, um, I should probably try and get a job by myself because companies don't want to hire both me and him on DH. Basically, I'm no, He fired me. Essentially, there's no real. And I said to put it, He's fired me. He said I should look for a job myself because of the companies. Didn't want to get him a swell at the time. It made sense, but looking back on, it's like what five paid you this money. Do your job to the maximum term, right? And then he started saying that maybe I should, you know, come back and retrain and all of this kind of stuff. And that kind of sent alarm bells for me because it's like if all this time I've needed to be trained, why did he say that the beginning? Why did you pass me if I wasn't good enough on DH? That's something that I think I've had to deal with a lot of industry, like trying to prove that I'm good enough or that I'm intelligent or that I know the work. That's been a common theme for two people who have hired me. So the the idea is like if you hire someone you know that they're good enough because you've hired them to do the job, you wouldn't hide them if they weren't good enough. And yet, after being hide, I still have to prove that I know what it is I'm doing, or that I want to learn, at least you know. But anyway, um, so I was fired and that was a shell shock on DH. Really disappointing on it meant I had to go back on Jobseeker's allowance because there was definitely no income coming in again, and it was real low point because it's kind of like, Wow, I've spent all this money to learn how to code and get a job and I'm back in Voldemort's layer and it just wasn't a good feeling. So one of the people on the cohort had a guy who's looking for mentee, and he put me in touch with him and this guy basically paid me while I was on Jobseeker's allowance as well. Tio come in and do some work with him like a few days a week, and that was a really good experience and I was like learning a lot and I e mailed my CV out as well and I got a few call backs and I might actually for work experience because I thought I wasn't good enough to get like her full time job because this is hard for at the time and someone gave me a full time job and that was really amazing. So I got my first job, no relief. I wasn't haven't but that's near Portsmouth but that's like two hours from London. But it was just such a nice turn of events because things have been going so crappy and so crummy. Um, for the last few months, to get my first job was just like, Wow, amazing. I am good enough. You know, I have made it all that money spent was all useless. It was was definitely worthwhile worth something. So yeah, that's pretty much my boot camp experience. There's definitely highs and lows on the highest. Definitely have helped me with my jobs that have come after, and the lows have taught me a lot of lessons, especially a lot of lessons about the industry on DH. I think it's very important that you find the right a place for you. So definitely research, research, research, research and also don't put too much expectations and things like, Just because you go to a boot camp in you do the course does not mean you're going to get a job. You definitely have to still work for the job. Apply to jobs on DH. Make sure your portfolio is worth showing and you have work to show. I I did have worked to show, but just in case you know it's not going to boot camp isn't the magic fix and if you if you are thinking about code and then just do it going coed academy and do a haste Herrmann CSS course. And it may seem really difficult, but I promise you, when you change that background colour from white to red or blue or yellow, you are going to feel amazing. It seems so minor and so simple, but honestly, like it's so amazing, the feeling knowing that you are learning this new thing and getting it and doing it to just do it, just go on co academy. It's free creating account and just do one of the courses. I definitely started hating Mel CSS. If you're not, don't ride him before there. Um, what else? What other teams do I have? Yeah, everyone finds code and hard. This is something that I didn't really know in my boot camp experience, even towards the end, even when I got my first job. It's not something I've learned until like my second job. My current job is that everyone finds coding really difficult from senior developers to junior developers. Everybody, people who've been in the industry for 20 years still found code and really hard because it's hard on. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with it being hard, and you're not unintelligent for finding it difficult at all. It's not a comment on your smarts. It's no comment on who you are. It's just coding is our programming. A computer is heart, and that's because computers are dumb, like computers don't know what to do. You have to tell them what to do. But humans are very used to like relying on implications and implying. If I say Oh, yeah, get me that, get me the tin opener. You're a human is going to go to the kitchen probably. And look for where they think that tin opener will be. Rosa the computer you need to tell it step by step, Get up from the bed, walk across the room, opened the door on. Getting into that habit of things is difficult initially especially, and also learning a A whole new language is hard, like justice hard. Um, coding is communal like. This is something I definitely did learn on my boot camp. It's very important that when you're finding things difficult that you ask for help, people will help you. Google is your best friend because someone on the Internet has had the same problem you're having on his angst. And then someone else who also had that problem and now has a solution has answered. And so what you can do is Google your question and just find a whole bunch of answers because a lot of people have had your problem cutting his communion man like I'm part of this mailing this called our rock and our rock amazing, honestly. And they is just a really good place to get jobs to advertise with jobs to advertise for events, toe organise events, toe debug, your app and arts, big questions about databases and small questions like Why on earth would my service start stuff like that? You know, it's just really commune you, and it's a really nice feeling known that there are people who want to help you out there. Um, so, yeah, cutting his communion. So just do it research everything everyone finds good and hard. So you're not you're not silly on DH coating his communion. I hope you guys have enjoyed listening into my boot Camp Storey. Yeah, like there's so much happening with B g t. Come 2017. I was recently featured in Buzzfeed to talk about Bt the name off that would be in the description on DH. I'm also going to be on BBC Berkshire. I don't have the link for that year, but it's gonna be soon. I suppose, Um again, we're preparing for our workshops next year, which are looking to be medium Edie dope. Really amazing. We're gonna do quite a few interesting coding workshop. So if you're thinking about going to a book out Oh, you think about land, not a code. But you kind of want to test the waters Definitely come to our entrance of coding workshops, which will be starting in January. And that's going to be super dope for loss on tutor at Blackguard Tech cheque us out on Facebook Blackguard Tech cheque us out on meet up the blackguard tech meet up and yeah, I think that's pretty much it. Bye. Thanks for listening)
