---
title: should_you_become_a_contractor
blog: podcast
published: false
date: 2019-05-13 05:00:09
duration: 00:35:50
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/should_you_become_a_contractor.wav
---
<div class='row'><audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/should_you_become_a_contractor.wav' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio></div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (Hello. Welcome back to us in the source. I am your host Malala on DH today I'm going to be talking to you about contracting. And should you do it, basically, should you go and become a contractor and then in the source, I'm going to be talking to you about SSL at T Essa. I'm sure loads of people heard about SSL on DH, I guess like probably a few people will have some kind of idea about what SSR is. So today I'm just gonna be talking about that. So let's get into the main topic contracting. I was, if you'd been listening, you know, like I did contract him for the Well, I say I did contact him for the for the 33 months of this year. But technically, I have been a contractor since July of last year or August's around that summer. Time off last year, the last company I was working for was a company who hired remote workers from everywhere, supposedly or from a love English speaking places at least, But in order to hire from the UK because they didn't have an entity in the UK, they required that you become that you are contracting. So they hired you as a contractor, Um, on DH. That was good for me at the time, and I explained a bit more about that whole thing. But why? What I personally ended up doing was setting myself up as a limited company on by set myself up as a limited company. There were things, you know. It was easier for me, too. Do certain things basically. So things like tax and all of this kind of stuff doesn't gains this. I'll talk a little bit more about the pros of contracting later, and I'll also be talking about the con. Some of from my personal experience is what the cons are. Um, one thing I will say before I go in tow. The topic is, if you are fresh, like, out of a boot camp or, you know, you've never had a drop in the industry of fresh out of unique I would not say should become a contractor just yet. I would recommend getting some experience first, Uh, you know, somewhere where you can learn about the job on the job, united me from your colleagues and you know all of this kind of stuff because learning as a contract is way more expensive. You pay for your own learning number one on also number two the time You know that given you time to, you know, get up to speed Really like that, You know, they're not really invest in time so that you can learn and, you know, understand things and aren't, you know, ask questions and they've brought you in for specific thing. They need you to do that specific thing and leave. So I will say, if this is your first job, probably not do contracting There is a difference between freelancing on contracting on. To be honest, freelancing is kind of more Why did the beginning of this year the contract? Because I didn't get the contracts. I had won contracts on the table before I started money job. And then I start many jobs. So but so freedoms in is more kind of like, I guess it's in the name is more free. So it's more kind of like on a I don't see an ad hoc basis, but you know, like usually one specific thing. So, like, if somebody wants you to build a website or basically is No. Any real contracts beyond I, You know, we'll build this thing for you. You just have to sign on the dotted line. Contracting is more like on a project basis or usually longer time than freelance in and usually have, like an actual work contract. So, you know, I'm gonna work for you from this day to this day here on my, you know, stipulations, his my leave notice and all of that unknown plain an employment contract is involved. Graves were freelancing. There's usually no unemployment contract involved, and yet it's a bit more long term. So you usually have contracts. I guess you can have contracts. Anything from like, you know, a few days, a few months, A few years sometimes, even. But usually the contracts I've seen specifically for, like, ever programme in engineering jobs, off engineering jobs are more kind of like between the three month on the nine month mark. So anywhere between their ass in quite a few jobs along that line. So that's the difference between three nights, and I'm contracting quite a few freelancers who say their contract and I did that quite a few contracts is, he said, every lance, and sometimes the words are used interchangeably. But they are not the same thing. S Oh, yeah, get experience. There's a difference. Let's get into the meat off the main topic the pros and cons of contract. And so, as I said, I did contracting for thie basically from the end of July, too, on a stage in November last year. And the reason I'm doing this podcast episode is well, so this is a prerecorded episode, folks. I am literally recording this after the last episode, last week's episode that you like five minutes later. But basically this last week that just happened. Which will be when you hear this episode two weeks ago, Um, we were talking about on the timeline on DH. So, Joe, I forget his aunt. I forget his surname, but this guy called Joe. He's the work. Get Hub made a point, and he said he's never He would never work a za contractor for a black American company. Our company, who doesn't have an entity in the U. K. Especially because employment laws in places like California are terrible when I say terrible like the we are. So the current government in the United Kingdom is trash. We know this is trash. However, there are just things in place that protect us in ways we don't even realise. Like did you know in America they can fire you at will? What does fire at will mean to be fired at will Means you, Khun, turn up to work one day and they can be like you're fired for no visa in the UK That's tribunal. That's you know you're going to court. You're getting some money because you're not allowed to just fire people just because you feel like it. You have to go through a process. Obviously there are anomalies like I've been fired before. Hey, I got fired a week before my probation ended. And so there are ways to kind of, like, you know, so convinced that, but typically speaking, you can't be fired like if your fighter the UK is cause of, like, Boris misconduct or you know something else you can get pushed out, but they can't like, just fight. And there's like a whole bunch of other employment trash employment. Basically, employees are not protected in a lot of American states, And so when you are hired as a contractor, which, if you're working for the company, is very, very possible that you be hired as a contractor. When your hide as a contractor you are under there like you signed their contracts on their contracts are protected by them. So it becomes a bit cloudy in terms ofthe like your mama you cases and I'm living in the EU campaign tax in the UK so But I've signed an American, you know, contract. So who protects me? Is that the American government or is it the UK government? Um, I how bound to this contract and it gets it gets confusing it. Andi, you know, hopefully not those of people in situations where they're, you know, having to really think about that. But it's still something to think about. So that's kind of like that was my first experience of contracts. As I said earlier, I set myself up as a limited company on blah, blah, blah. So why did I set myself up as sentiment C company? I would be earning a certain amount of money. I don't know how comfortable people are. We've hearing something. I'm really cool. Talk about salaries and like how much I earn. I don't mind that, but I don't know. It's my put across that anywhere. I was earning $90,000 which amounts to about £70,000. I think that's why my 70 k at that job they paid really, really well on DSO that would have put me in a if I if I if I was a sole trader instead of it was a company that have put me in the higher tax bracket or something like that. And my accountant at the time was saying What? He's still my counsel. My constant was saying that basically, there are just ways that we can, um, ways that we can, you know, help. Now there are there are new laws that I offer a five regulations and things like this. That kind of like prevent you from doing these kind of things. However, because the only option for that company was to hire me as a contractor, like they can't hire me as a permanent member of staff. I I think that's how I kind of circumvented the I r 35 stuff. I think, Um Anyway, um, basically there was like, you know, some financial benefit in terms of me, having Teo be in terms of me set myself a person. It's a company. Set yourself up as enemies. The company is also really good way to build money because the company's making the money. You're not making the money. The company's making the money. There are things that you can expense. There are things that you know cheaper because your company, very few things are cheaper. But, you know, there are ways. Toe. I love the time you're not spending your own money. You're spending company money and as long as it's legally expensive, YL, which there are so many things that you can legally expense, you know, with your company as part of a company without even, like doing anything shady, they dislike you. If I need anything laptop, my company could buy that because that's crucial to my work peripherals. In terms of that mouse stuff like that, Well, if if you're travelling for company purposes, you know you could expense that, too. You know, this is loads of things that you can expense, right, so there's like, a lot of the time things that may buy on your own dime if you are an employee, permanent employee or a freelance so sole trader that setting yourself up as a company is just is the company spending money on? Which means also the tax is different because the company spending money not the individual but setting yourself up resentment. A company is only beneficial if you're earning over like 40 K, my content said 35. But I'm putting out a light for you 45 just for like, a nice Bopha. If you're not going to be earning over that kind of, if you're not gonna be turning over that, then it's a waste of time. It's a waste of money to set yourself up as elements, a company you're not gonna see enough on a month to month basis, you know, so it just doesn't really make that much sense his best to just set yourself opposites or trade, especially because you'll be in the lower tax bracket anyway. So, yeah, but pros financial tax gain It's a good way to build up money. The tax that you pay, so basically, if you set yourself up as a company, you are able to take out dividends which are taxed at like if you If you take out less than 35 K and dividends a year, I think that's like 7.5% tax on DH. Then you know, if you take out more than that, then it's a higher tax bracket, and then you pay income tax, which is 19% so together. That's like in tax your pain, what I want to say 26 a half percent in tax, which is not 40% if you want a higher tax bracket. So it is, You know, you save money in tax, I'll get attacks later on. I don't mind paying tax. So that was never really a That wasn't like a thing that drew me into that, to be honest with you, Um, also, if you go into contracting, you get flexibility in terms ofthe you're only gonna be at one place for Black a few months to a year like on a year is like, you know, that's a long time. That's a long contract, right? But usually you get contracts for that three months, six months, which means that for some people, what they do is like they work for six months and then, like, chill for six months. So, you know, they work for three months, take a break for month, get another contract for three months, take a break and love that kind of stuff. And there's just a bit more flexibility, Especially if you want travel. You know, you can travel for longer periods of time. You could do stuff on this flexibility for in terms of when you work. If you only wanna work for hot the first half of the year or the second half of the year, you can define that s O is more flexible in that regard. You. As I said, I get to keep more of your money, gets a build up money for me. I think there's a really the only cruise to me. Um, I think that those are like strong powers, especially if you if you're working in a career that maybe you get bored quickly or you know you want to taste the different things, right? So you don't You wantto cert for example? Sure. Programmer. You wanna, you know, taste what it's like to work in the fintech. You wanna taste what it's like to work in health. You want to taste what it's like to work in entertainment. You know, contracting is a good way to do that. You can have six month contracts, you know, fiddling with different products and different things, right. However, for me, I think there are so few. I think there are more cons for me than pros at this particular point in my life. This may change for me, you know, like at a later point. And so, yeah, I think you know, do what works best for you basically. But here are the consul contracting. So, finding clients you have to do and finding jobs you have to do that more often because obviously you know your client is your employer on. Do you have to do the whole job process more often? There are ways to kind of ease the load using recruiters, for example, or like joining a contract in house of anything or some kind of like agency and things like this. But typically like, let's say you don't want to do that, and you're just, you know, on your gaze on your ones on your own, you just do it on your own by way. Jay's one's own. They're all the same thing. They mean the same thing. It's just I wanted to be accessible and not like it's going. People You don't know London's Lange on the way like fight if you're doing it by yourself. Just finding clients by yourself, that king for me that could just get free long, Um, and also can become really stressful because weapons, when you don't find a client's events, the stability of a job is like, according to question and all of this kind of stuff. And that's just not something I want to ever have to worry about. Really. Um, you don't get paid annual leave, so any you don't get paid annually. We don't get paid sick leave. So really, when you're setting your prices, you need to set that out like contractors are expensive because you need Teo take into account that Okay, if you get sick, just because you're sick doesn't mean now you can't, you know, switch on your lights or, if you want to go away, one to take a break, which is important. You should take a break then, you know, you know, basically, you're not limited by the You know what? You're what you're earning. So you need to take one of those things into account, right? So you don't get none of that and your clients not gonna pay for you to go on holiday. When I say pay fee to go on holiday like they're not. You don't get no 25 days off annual leave paid time off a year and you don't get no how women days of sick leave. I've never worked in anywhere. That's has a limit on how many days of sick leave you can take. So apparently those places exist. I've never worked in a place that limits how much sick leave you can take. But, yeah, they don't have paid sick leave. You also don't get a lot of other benefits. So a lot of places I've worked, let's say three out of five places of words have given benefits like, you know, actual real benefits. One place I think they gave, like gym membership, which I guess, but I can't remember any other benefits. They gave enemy things like so to places I've worked now have given access to like I forget what it's called, but it's this thing where you can if you need a lawyer, if you need an accountant, if you need therapy. This is like thing and number. You can call, and you can get all of that advice and stuff for free on DH. Two places I want to know have done have had access to that. The current place, our work. Now they have a whole bunch of benefits, things like cancer support if you get cancer, health insurance and I mean in the UK health insurance is not to say that big of a deal because we have the any chest. But in places like America off places where you don't have, like a I kind of feel like Americans that only like Western country, that does not have the national health service of some sort. But if you are living in somewhere that doesn't have a national house of health, insurance is going to be pretty important. We get dental insurance and then we get like I would get income protection, which is really important, which you should have she definitely have. If you are contracting income protection basically is like insurance, so that if you are for whatever reason, not ableto earn money. So not for everything. Usually sickness so that if you are sick for extended period of time, usually over 26 weeks, then you'll get income. My income protection is 75% off my annual salary. On there are others that are like different rates, basically, So you might get 50%. You might get 60% whatever and you pay different amounts of month is insurance. Where is income protection? You should definitely have that. You're contracting, but I'm not contracting. And my company still pays for me to have income protection. Eso yeah, there's this Oh, and things like tuition reimbursement. I get tuition reimbursement. So even though I was always going to go back to school, it's a nice benefit now that I know that when I finish, I don't have toe. Sorry, My phone has big speed. Does this thing where my friend just like, goes off? It's just always listening to me. And I don't know how to turn back to me or for my friend now anyway, So yeah, tuition reimbursement. It's just nice to have that because I was always going back to school. It's nice to know that I don't have to pay for, like everything. What? So you and then they just have, like, a bunch of nice tohave which aren't essential things like paying for adoption and, you know, fertilisation treatments, things like and you have annual 3 60 health screenings just like a bunch of random stuff. Gadget insurance this up under random stuff. Now, if you are contracting you khun like pick and choose which one of these benefits you want and just pay for them yourself on DH, that's fine. However, for me, something like I was always gonna pay for, you know, tuition reimbursement. Right? But it's nice to know that at least half of that is coming back into my come. That's like a pressure off world like this, like a you know, a pressure off of me. And so when I was, you know, cheese and jobs, I don't really go for places that have this, like benefits, benefits, benefits. I don't usually really care about benefits that much, because money tangible money. My account is more important than benefits to me personally, and this is actually the first place that I have, you know, talk to them for things like health insurance and things like that. But the tuition reimbursement was big for me. And also I work remotely now. The day I go back and see like an office job, you would just have to know that I am either making bank or I'm really desperate. Or maybe I love the products. But I doubt is just because I love the product I have to be like making bank or reading really desperate, not even me, meaning just desperate. I get to work primarily a lot of contracts in jobs. For whatever reason, there aren't that many remote contracting jobs for like, I don't know why. Because you would think that enemy there aren't that many remote contracting jobs that I get to work from my home. I have lacquer, NYSE desk and I was kind of like office E area in my front room, which is also a record, my podcast. So that's really, really nice for me, and that also gives me the flexibility. I also have unlimited and you leave, which means that I can pretty much work from anywhere, and I want well, pens on some some countries depends on the legalities off that. But you know, I could work from that example. I can go home to Nigeria and visit my grand parents and work from Nigeria, and, you know, that will be fine. I like Morocco and you love America is a country can go to Morocco. In fact, there is actually an office in Morocco. So you know, I can do things that that there's a bit more freedom, Um, now unlimited and you leave is said to be a trap. A limited annual leave is only a trap in America. On in the UK it's only a trap if you don't take, take it so in the UK So there's been studies done where if you offer people unlimited annual leave, they won't take annual leave because it is there so they can take it whenever they want. Whereas if you put like a cap and say you only have X amount of days, they're more likely to take it. Which makes sense. I mean, that's fair. Um, bucks, as I said, that's only a trap. If you don't take it, just take the annual leave like, you know, I mean, I'm not saying take the Mickey and like take three months at a time. But you know, take on your leaf ahs long as it's in accordance with your manager and all of that in America. The reason why it's a trap there is because, um, I think it's a way for people for companies to get out from paying. So if you don't have a cap on annual leave and you leave the job, there's no way to say how many days you had left because there's no cap, right? So there's no way to say, Oh, you have five things of annual leave less. We're just gonna pay you out the remaining five days you have left so that I think that is more for trap over there, which is sad again. America doesn't have good employment laws, so it's a bit sad. But you know, a combination ofthe work, working remotely and unlimited annually just puts me in a really nice position in terms of flexibility and also I can dictate my hours and stuff like this. So for me, the flexibility off working as a contract in terms of length of contract and when I work us off like that is kind of balances out because I have. My job is also very flexible at the moment. The last one is a con, an upper. So contracts are easier to terminate. Contracting contracts are easier to terminate because they usually have short notice periods like really short notice. Prince days, Two weeks Now you can amend the notice period. You can say to employ up, actually, or your client. Actually, I'm no going, Tio, take a you know, one week notice, period. I require two weeks minimum or whatever. Right? You could do that. Andi. I know contractors who have done that. However, to brief you. People don't do that. You know, you can basically turn up to work and then say, Oh, you're fired on because there doesn't need to be a reason with contracting is just Oh, we don't need you anymore. And then, you know, you have a week to friend another contract, and they can do this at any point in the process. The reason I say this is a pro is because of what's how as a pro for me when I was, you know, in my first contract in job, the job was horrible. I spoken by another podcast. You can go back on this. And I think the episode where I talk about quitting that is that job for that company. And so that was horrible. And it was just really easy for me to hand in my resignation of this. And then I was like, What I had was two weeks on, I'd even work that two weeks because I was off sick because the job was that horrible made me sick, but yeah, so I didn't have to be there for, like, the drop house in previously that my notice proves a month. I didn't have to wait the whole month a whole month. You know, being in such a toxic environment. You know, it was two weeks, and that was it. So that, you know, easier to somebody think you're working your favour. Usually, if you're in somewhere really horrible or if you found something else, that's really amazing. I just need to like you need to join that place really quickly. Right s Oh, that's kind of it. Pros and cons of contracts. And so just to go over the pros financial tax gains, good way to build money, flexibility in terms of rent from contracts, which means you get to try and taste different things within a short space of time. Flexibility about when you work in terms of like the time of year you work and stuff like that. The ponds for me personally finding clients or jobs don't get paid and you leave. Don't get paid sick. Leave that on any life employees paid employer paid benefits Contracts are easier to terminate, and also to that, I forgot a while when I forgot was You also have added expenses, so things like insurance is you have tohave forgot what it's called basically, the insurance that says, If I build something, if I could make something for you and you're not happy with it and you take me to court, basically you have insurance that protects against stuff like that on DH, also on and, you know, versus an added expense, I think, for black attack we paid, we had we had another insurance as well. If you're building a product that you know or that you're selling as well, you need to get insurance for that. If you're storing anybody's data in your product or anything like that, you need to get you out of that blackguard tech. I think our insurance is like £650 for the year, so it's like so that, you know big, But it's just an added expense and also thinks, like an accountant, my accountant is not cheap, and so that's an added expense. But he's also not, like ridiculously expensive like and then, depending on your field, you might also need to have, like, a lawyer and stuff like this. So it's just things to think about and also sorry. One more thing nobody tells you is that before you go into contracting, you need a buffer off like a few months off salary that you can live off before you cannot touch the money that the company's making. So you can't just, like, get your first paycheck from your contracts. And then, if you're limited company, at least you can't just get that first paycheck and then use it back straight away. You have to await. There needs to be a buffer. So maybe I I start taking out money from the company and that in dividends I started taking different out. Maybe in October Andi, I started working in. When did I start working in July. Sorry, I said that already as well as I work in the end of July and I took out my first dividends in October. The reason is because you don't it's not Saturday me, you know, it's not a salary. So you're not supposed to take out on a monthly basis like you would a SCIRI. So when you take out your diffidence, you just you take out as much as necessary and you do that a few times a year pretty much, but you need to let that money build up. So you need a few months, you know, Buffalo, where you're not touching any of that money so the money can build up. And that's something nobody told me and I had to use my savings. But those all right in the end, So yeah. Anyway, that's that's in terms of contract. I hope this has made sense. I felt like it was a bit rampantly, but we move all right now into the source. All right, so today I'm gonna be talking to you about SSL in the source. SSL stands for secure sockets layer on. Basically, this is a way to protect data and information as is being transferred from point A to point B. Usually point a is the browser, Which is that what you see? It's also called the client on DH transferred to the server, which is the bitsy. Don't you never see the server on the service? Usually where information is data is dealt with, manipulated on then stored in a database or something like that, somewhere s O or it could be server to server in AP, eyes and stuff like with a P s and things like that. It can be servant to serve our however, but basically you have a point and have a point B and chancellor of some data between those two points and SSL is a way to do that. Security's secure socket surveyor. Now it does this by encrypt encrypting the data and scramble in the data. So even if it's intercepted, which is unlikely, But even if it is intercepted, you can't do anything with it because it's encrypted. Now when youse go to a website and you see Hey, http s, which stands for hypertext transfer protocol secure. So you have hypertext transfer protocol which is http. And then you have hypertext transfer protocol secure. This tells you that a U R l you are l or website has an SSL certificate. So the way we basically say, you know, use the secure protocol is that of the insecure protocol is we assign a ticket, we assign a ticket to the browser and usually to the server. So, like is encrypted end to end encryption boom into encryption s So that's how you know a website secure If you see https so anything that takes any kind of data, especially sensitive data such as card details, should have Haiti TPS Never, ever in your life think about entering your card details on a website that does not have hate T t. P s. Please do not do it to yourself. Please do not do to yourself because what it means is that sunken intercepts that can lead to the information very willingly, like it's not encrypted. It's not protected anything. You don't want that now. There is also something called tear less and that stands for transport transport layer security on Really, that's just like Mohr up to date version of SS. Also, we still call it an SSL certificate, even though you're buying when you buy an SSL certificate and you actually get SSL certificates for free on DH. Don't worry. Free ones are also like, usually credible, so light from places like Let's encrypt or even Cloudflare fuse Cloudflare. We'll talk about class. I see. That's probably another good Lawson source topic anyway, So Tear Les is just another day in version of SS. Also, when you buy an SSL certificate, you are getting the most usually the most up to date version, which is tireless and I d like issue can pick. Ideally, you picked Innis because us up today, it's got the, you know, the latest technologies and stuff like that to make sure your data is safe and secure and is usually good practise tohave enter end encryption on that says usually good practise tohave SS on both the server on DH. The rather um, But if you can only pick one definite me, the browser, like 100% the browser if you can only pick one, but you should have both. So, yeah, that's what Cecil is is just a way off protecting your data as it travels through the Internet highway from your browser to your server, or sometimes from your servitia sirve that's likely from browser to browse or plant a client. I don't think that really happens. Bitten. So yeah, that is it for this week's episode of Lost in the Social Moments or follow us online at Lost in the Source on Twitter. Lost in the Sauce on Spotify, Spotify, soundcloud and what's the other one? Whole podcasts were also Google put causes. Lawson. So I use goat report cards for my poor casting because it's just nice to have everything in one place. And also I'm I'm deep in the Google Matrix. So why, no. Yeah, follow us like our share. Subscribe. Tell your friend to tell a friend and thus it for this week. See you next week.)
