---
title: tech_isnt_ready_for_diversity
blog: podcast
published: false
date: 2019-03-04 06:00:23
duration: 00:35:50
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/tech_isnt_ready_for_diversity.mp3
---
<div class='row'><audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/tech_isnt_ready_for_diversity.mp3' class='col-md-12'>
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio></div>

Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (I recorded this episode earlier this week and I didn't like it. So we're doing this again, wasting the source. I'm your host, Lalla. And this podcast is where I talk about my experiences in the industry, Mike, on a journey through tech, the source on. And I also explain technical concepts, technical terms on what they mean and how applicable they are. You're like everyday work as opposed today. I'm going to be talking about the problem of diversity, particularly how pertains to me and my experiences. So I'm not speaking for all black women. I'm not even speaking for all black people. I'm not speaking for all minorities. I'm speaking for Lola on. That's it. Oh, on also in the source, I will be talking about rate limiting what his rate limiting wise rate limiting useful. Some of you may have heard the term rate limiting before. Some of you may have never heard what it is. What it means have never even, like, thought about it in your life. And that's fine. I'm going to explain some of that in the source towards the end of the episode. So, yeah, let's get into it. So this week I started. Why should that? She say last week? Because today Sunday I started therapy. I have wanted to do therapy for a very long time, and this is a time when I can afford it. And I also feel like this is a perfect time for me to go into therapy. On this episode was supposed to be about me talking about again onto my master's programme Computer science I'm doing in October and I may do another episode solely dedicated to computer science on DH two, like the decision to go into my masters and how to prepare for high education and stuff like that. But I'm going to slightly talk about that in today's episode, too, because I think it's really related and Teo how I feel in this industry. So I started therapy on Friday and it was many about work. That's the That's a fact that's always book about in the hour that I was with my therapist, we spoke about work primarily. We spoke about my anxiety and lack of confidence around work around the things that I produce around the things that I have, the jobs I go up for around being tested on a ll that kind of stuff. And you know where that comes from on DH. I guess in future sessions, we're going to delve into how to manage those anxieties and how to manage that lack of confidence. But what I realised with my therapist help is that Ah, lot off my feelings around. My work comes, doesn't is not just impostor syndrome. I think that everyone gets in process, injure my everyone gets this feeling off being found out on DH being exposed and you know no feeling like you actually know the thing, especially when you're doing difficult work, you know, Um but this, I realised, isn't just impostor syndrome. It isn't just being found out. It's a lack of confidence and specifically anxiety. I've spoken a little bit about my experiences before where I've had panic it this on jobs off her panic attacks or anxiety attacks. There some jobs where is affected my health, like my physical actual health. It's affected my sleep or this kind of stuff because ofthe thie environment that I'm working. And so really, it doesn't even have much to do with the actual work I produce. And as we have much to do with my technical competency, but it's more about the environment in which I produced that work. And so I'm talking to my therapist and she's like, You know, So tell me how you got into tech like Tommy. I came into this industry and I told her on as I was talking to her about my boot camp experience, which I think I have a whole podcast on my boot camp experience or maybe boot camps in general. But to refresh my boot camp experience, who wasn't I d'oh! Um, and my boot camp was one where you do three months coding and then three months in the industry like work experience on DH. When my three months for work experience came, I wasn't. None of the clients wanted me to work for them. Now. There could have been very valid reasons for that. But I've got so put when hours, literally the only choice to choose on. Nobody chose me on DH. Then my tutor hired me, and I was working for him for a while. Then he fired me after I got sick for a little while. Then he fired me, and then he found me in public as well. So he took me to like a cafe and he fired me on. Then, after he fired me, he recommended me coming back onto the boot camp. After life of me, I don't remember if it was like to come back for free or no, but he got then offered me like, Oh, why didn't come back onto the boot camp to, like, top up your skills on this was like the first time I was hearing that my skills were adequate in the almost. I guess there's almost probably coming up to 6 to 9 months right in that time frame. This is the first time after he's fired me that I'm here and that my skills are not up to par. So anyway, I said that to my therapist, and she was just like, Wow, that that is pretty traumatic. Teo, go from, you know, being in a cross off swaps. I've just moved my mike. I had to go from being an across for the people who are also learning. Teo, you're the only one who's not chosen to being hired by someone who believed in you enough to hire you because they talk to you. I believed in you enough to hide. And then they find you in such a kind of disrespectful manner in public. And then to them, be said that maybe your skills are not good enough. Like that plays on your psyche that plays an unconscious. And I never really looked at it like that. Like, obviously, I knew that my experience was not great, but I had never really looked at how that that be in my kind of, like introduction into the industry into the professional side of the industry with shape or has shaped. I'm just has shaped how I come into the workforce on how I come into, like interviews and those kind of things right. And when she said that I just kind of took a minute to kind of be like, Yo, that's mad Let wow, of course, like obviously like it makes sense. Like, if that's my introduction into the industry and make sense that when I step into interviews now or from, you know from then till now why I have been so kind of like nervous, nervous little point, why forget everything? Never to the point where I cannot even you know, things that I know so confidently. My every day work life that I can't even communicate those things in the good way, especially when it comes to coding, especially when it comes to actually doing the code and bit like I can talk well enough. But when it comes to that sure coding and make sense where I kind of my body panics. So where were we spoke? A little bit about that? And I just told about, you know, my kind of jobs in the industry and everything and all of this, and it was just really fascinating. To see her perspective like This is an outsider looking in Ansan who is qualified in, I guess, reading situations and how situations affect people. And, you know, I spoke to her about my time at various companies. The last company, I was that in particular, and she was just, like, off course. So since my last year, but let me just put this on table. Since my last job, my anxiety around work has increased a lot to the point where now even take home tests in interview set into me even take home tests are a problem. I panic even when I'm in an environment that I feel safe and I feel confident in. I panic. You know, that's not really the fall off any employer, anything like that. But it's just is down to the things I've experienced in industry, right? So the kind of pattern that I've seen for myself is that employers or yeah, let's say employers see me see my work. See, either I have potential. I have the skill. I have something that's valuable to them. Invite me into their workspace by hiring me, and then when I'm in that space, they stifle me. So whether that's not letting me work on projects that they yeah, whether that's just like I've been denied working on projects before in terms ofthe like, Yeah, you're not You're not doing any Ruby. You can only do hate him on CSS, even though I'm a Ruby engineer, and they hired me as a freebie engineer on this is before they've seen you do any ruby work on to unite my last place. They knew I didn't know any of the technologies, but still didn't give me space within my work of ram it to learn about the technologies in a healthy way. So when you take all of these things into account, it makes total sense. Why I don't performer in, you know, interview environments on why I have such a distrust going into organisations and going into teams that are like brand new to me. If literally 25% off, my work experience is only 25% off my work. It's bills has been positive 75% off my work. It spreads, has been negative. Literally three out of four off the jobs I've had has been negative. Those aqua dots. Those are hopeful odds, though they're not those odds. I just not great, you know, on every step off the way because of the kind of person I am. I am naturally very critical of myself. S o. I can't live my life under a microscope, and I analysed the things that I do and say, and you know how they affect other people and stuff. And when I've tried to do that with those work and promises amounted to something that's not healthy, because a lot of the time I'm analysing things that really in Trudy, isn't it? I'm zooming in on things that in the grand scheme of things, don't really matter. So I'm nit picking about things that are really mine, are really silly and just like not that deep because I feel like that must be why they don't like me Or that must be why they feel I am not a good fit for that. Must be why. And really, it's not that, you know, a lot of the teams have worked. Most of teams have let tonight be the black woman. All of the team's efforts have not been the only black women. Some of the companies have been the only black woman. Some of the companies have been the only black person. I don't think I've ever been the only woman, but you know, there is those things that play as well on dso it kind of. I mean, this is something I've been thinking about in general anyway. But it kind of like makes me think is tech ready for diverse workforce? I have spent almost five years working, particularly with diversity and inclusion with black GA Tech. I've worked in various companies related to the average diversity and inclusion initiatives and I just kind of feel like Texas ready Ford of diverse workforce tech and shot about being ready all at once. Tech can, you know, have a ll the inclusion initiative that can give money to everybody if it wants to. It can have all these parties or these groups within their companies, where is like, oh, you know, black black tutor in the company. Or, you know, the black Facebook, whatever it can do all of that. But as an industry, tech isn't ready for diverse workforce. And the reason I say that is because when you em fry minority groups into the workforce and say, come and work for us, that isn't enough. Um, there wasn't enough there to protect those groups. These groups are people who already vulnerable, already socially vulnerable, and you're inviting them into spaces that haven't done the work. Tio unlearn a ll the stuff on. I'm not talking about diversity doing diversity and inclusion workshops because from what we have seen, what we know, diversity and inclusion workshops do not work. They don't, especially especially especially especially if they are led by people from the oppressive group, especially if they are and I think diversity and inclusion workshops right? This. They're very blanket and they kind of group all minorities and all, all people who are pressed together as a visit. How you treat any vulnerable person, any minority. This's and that's not true. That's really not true, because my experience as a black woman is different, so different to my experiences so to the experiences of a white woman. And it is different to the experiences of a black man so different the experiences off, eh? A person with a disability versus the experiences off. You know, a gay person who doesn't have a disability. They are both minorities, but their experiences are so, so different, and so diversity and inclusion Workshops don't do a good job off highlighting differences and saying, That's OK. Those differences are fine. We're gonna tackle and target those differences specifically because they are differently. There is no one size fits all, you know, so those don't work. But then, in general, when you're looking at the industry, you really have to ask yourself, Why are we asking vulnerable people minorities to sacrifice by coming into tech? I I had a conversation with a friend who you know was feeling the same kind of way because I'm kind of feeling like, you know, I don't I'm kind of happy I'm knitting golf blackguard cheque because I don't feel comfortable encouraging all these black women to come into the industry, and it's not safe for them. A good a perfect example I will give is So the boot camp house on the boot camps called. We got quotas. I do not recommend joining them. I do not recommend that. I think the person who was leading it when I was there, still leading at night. I don't know that he's changed his thinking or anything. But the, uh, when I left the blue cap, you know, as your leave and they ask you to give recommendations and stuff like this, obviously, to get more clients to get more people to drink. After the relationship between me and the Beauchamp broken down, I didn't ask for my likeness or my recommendation or anything like that to be moved from the site. I allowed that stuff to stay up there on. What that meant is that another black woman after me drink the boot camp because of what she had seen me say right, so because ofthe simply because off I was a black woman like her. And I have reported this good, you know, experience. Uh, she don't when she joined. I can't talk too much about what happened to her. But just the lawyers were involved. Lawyers had to become involved because of things that transpired on because she was not protected. There was nothing in place to protect her. You know, there was literally nothing in place to protect her when she told me. You know, we had a really good conversation about her afterwards. But she was initially kind of upset at me, annoyed at me because why would I do that? You know, and we had a really good conversation. And, you know, she wasn't upset with me after, but that stunt on dso for me Is that what we're asking minorities to sacrifice by common into technology, you know, like, what are we saying? They should give up? It's one thing to be that are you know, everyone's racist, you know, they may ask to touch your hair and you know, microaggressions. And at the end of the micro aggressions, they add up they do add up. But it's one thing to be dealing with that. And it's another thing to be specifically targeted, you know, and to deal with specific targeting because off who you are, what you look like. That's a whole other thing on DH. At the end of the day, I'm not sure how comfortable I am. Teo, welcome more black women into the situations that I've been in. You know, there's what, literally one company or recommend on that cos the company called 38 Degrees on DH. That's because they are the kind of company where they cannot she recognise the places in which they fail on DH. Try to do work, Tio. Fix those places on something unique about 30 degrees that I haven't seen and they ate a piece. Isn't a tech company, by the way. It's a nonprofit, but something unique. How haven't seen in other companies out worked out? That I do see that, say eight degrees is that they're inclusive. They are inclusive as best as they can be. Everyone still has work to do, but their inclusion isn't just about you know how to make minorities feel included is about how to make everybody feel included. So, for example, while I was there, I think things have changed now. But while I was there, there were different sections of the office. There's like a quiet section for people who preferred not to be interrupted while they're working on. There was like a more lively section where if you don't mind, Chen don't mind like music and stuff. You could sit on that side of the office on DH. That was for me. That was like a good way of saying We see that some people work best in different environments, and they took it step further to say, You know, if you prefer working from home or Sundays off the week, then please work from home If you need Teo, you know, that was very much encourage. And for me, that's like a good way of saying like, Okay, even outside of light race, gender ability, sexuality, you know, all these other things, even on a very, very basic level. Some people do not like to be disturbed on a work. So here's a section of the office with those people could work and all the other people who don't mind having chin wags that lasts and stuff are there working? Here's a section of the office where they could work that's so basic that so basic. And that's not something I've seen other companies like in other ways. Basic level, you know. And I think if you're not even in a place to do of those basic things, then I even in a place to deal with bigger, more complicated, complex things. I doubt it, you know. But, I mean, as I was talking to this friend of mine, something he was saying was that you know, the way he kind of justifies it is that there is a lot of money to be made in tech on DH. That's up at the end of day. That's a benefit I mean, is capitalist. But we live in a capitalist society. We do. We really, really do. And I think it would be unethical of me to encourage people not make money, especially if money's being made off off them. You know, I think that is unethical of me to encourage people to remain poor over war. Go off course is tio to fight for I guess a more distribution of wealth. But at the same time, for right now we are in a capitalist society, right? So there's money to be made in tech. That's what the thing. Another thing is that having more diverse voices, more diverse, um, opinions, backgrounds, it does create better technology. It really, really does. Right on. I don't mean in the sinister way off, like getting a facial recognition to be diverse so that it can pick up. Black people know you can keep your facial recognition. So we keep that because then we know that black people are just going to be more targeted. We're facial recognition software on facial recognition software is so diet at the moment, like it's not in a position where it can accurately depict faces enough of a percentage of the time for it to even be like a thing we should consider using. So not only will it go against, not only will it disproportionately target black people well, probably also get the wrong black people. Teo, that's a whole another thing. But, you know, I remember when I went on that tension. Oh, diversity, Yeah, off technology that is built that so that's a pro holistically that's a pro, but at the same time, like are those pros? Do those pros outweigh the cons? That what is the sacrifice? You know, I mean, like, that whole thing about working 10 times harder and stuff like this comes back to my master's because also it working twice as hard. If you're a minority, that's come back to my Masters because I have been in the industry for almost five years and I look at my peers who started at the same time as me and who had the same kind of experience, not like experience down to the bone off course. We went to different companies, but you've had the same kind of longevity is me, and they are now senior engineers that doing great things. And I'm happy for them, you know, I mean, but I don't feel like I'm in that place on. I don't feel like I'm in that place because I have unfortunately worked at so many different companies. Okay, three different companies out of for that have held me back, you know, for me, getting a master's is about me re claiming that taking that back for myself, taking my progression, my knowledge, My understanding back for myself in saying OK, you're not going to give me the opportunity to grow, and I'm just gonna find a way to do that myself, you know? So for me, it is doing my master's fundamentally comes down. Teo. There are things I want to know and things I want to learn about. And I think her master can give me those things on DH. Also the give me the respect that I think I deserve. Um, I don't feel like I'm respected and a lot off these environments that are working on. I think that's because a lot of the time I'm not seen as somebody capable of doing the work, even though you hire me and you're paid me to do the work. I'm not seen as somebody who is capable of doing the work, and I kind of feel that maybe if I have a Masters behind my back of masters and computer science behind my back, you have to kind of be like, okay, there's an academic institution, you know, that has said this person is capable off understanding the work and, you know, maybe I mean, but the way things were probably not, but I think it will make me feel good anyway, so I'll still do it. But, yeah, I just I don't think Tech is ready for a diverse workplace. I don't think Tech is ready for minorities to come in on DH. You know, really, when they've been shaking things up, just they're not ready for minorities to come in and be the trauma of experts. And I didn't use the word trauma. My therapist used the word troubles. I feel like if my therapist is a strobe on, then it's trauma. She's qualified. So you know that the trauma that I have experienced in tech is no. I feel like I've always dismissed it, you know, not dismissed it, but kind of just downplayed it a little bit. But it's it's not small, you know, I find it. When I was talking to my therapist, she noticed that I find it difficult to say that I'm a good engineer and just to say the words, I'm good in the context, off coding on engineering and I was just like, wow, like that's how much this stuff is impacted my work and that's not healthy. That's not healthy, so I don't know how much I'm encouraging other minorities to get into this field. I think what we need to do is encourage minorities howto cope in this field. I don't think it's enough to kind of be like, oh, alone coding. And when you get here, you make what this money I think we need to give them survival tools, survival tips howto manage and navigate racist, misogynist sexists, homophobic transphobic able ist people in tech on. I feel like it's a lot heightened in this industry because it is very white male on. I'm assuming the same things but are applicable to other white male dominated industries, too. Um, so I'm not taking that away from any other industry, either. On I'm not saying Tech is the worst industry to work, and I don't know, but I hear terrible things about science in general. I heard terrible things about journalism, so it's probably like a, you know, a society thing, which is it is a society thing, but I work in tech, and I can say that right here right now, we need to give people survival tools we need to give people survival tips and Maybe, just like the next thing I work on, I don't know. Survival tips would be in a black woman in Tech. I don't know those thought that idea. I shouldn't have said that. So I was gonna take that. I run with it. And, you know, I guess that whoever could do and do good, it doesn't really matter, but yeah, also, I think more like at end of date tech, Kano, you know, do anything tow, fix, diversity and inclusion or AIDS that without reckoning with their racism and misogyny on other isms, right, Like you can't fix something that you won't even acknowledge is broken on. It's one thing to say Oh, yeah, this is broken. Is another thing to say. I am part of this problem. I play a role in this problem, and I think that's difficult for a lot of people to do because what you're dancing is you have to get people to admit they're racists or misogynists, and it's so cool to be a feminist now. So it's like owner, but I support, you know, abortion. And, you know, I believe that women should get paid equally. Yes, a bit more than that now I believe that people are equal to us a lot more than that. It's a lot more than that. I, you know, had someone asked me to touch my hand. A toilet? What time? A director And I just thought that was funny. And I should have picked this one because it's my body. I shall have autonomy over my body. Don't need to ask me to touch my hair. It's here That is just hair like yours. I've had someone call me the name off another black person. But that other black person was in a permanent member of staff and they had actually only been there for a week. And they were freelancer. We looked nothing alike. I'm quite slim At the time, I had like, natural hair, but it was like it was usually kept lack in cameras. This person had big, like, really big hair. She was a bit bigger than me physically on DH. My colleague came out to me so confidently I was like, Hi, Stephanie on I was like half. Oh, I'm so sorry. We look nothing I like and she's dark of the meeting. We looked nothing. And anyway, you know, So that's racist. So I'm just going to say that out there that is racist. Well, people don't look the same, but yeah, it is difficult to get people to recognise that. It is difficult to get people to admit that they are part of the problem, but it's also the starting point, so I don't know what's. I don't know what Tech is going to do about this issue on. I'm also kind of tired of, you know, being I guess, being the one to kind of like champion it and be right. The black people, you know, are the ones that kind of come and change and shake up the scene. But I guess that's just the way things are. But yes, so that's kind of my thinking about diversity and inclusion within tech on DH. I guess I don't know what happens next, but that's well next on the programme will be in the source where I will be talking about, so this is in the source and today I'm gonna be talking about rates limiting rate Limiting is a way to manage the amount ofthe networks requests in a specified timeframe right from specific users or individual users. So read a good wayto show. This, as an example, is tio show. This issues an example. So let's say we have a birth certificate registry and it is just a database with the nodes of birth certificate information of loads of different people. Right on DH. This is an external hapless a. Google owns this up, although that would be a terrible thing. Let's say Google owns this app. I have a doctor's office. My friend Taller also has a doctor's office. My over friend Adam also has a doctor's office. Salalah, Tola and Adam have individual doctors offices. Right and eat of these offices need to access the birth certificate registry now without a limit. If we were a ll trying to get the data from this birth certificate registry at the same time and we're making loads and loads and loads and loads and loads of requests at the same time, it's likely that the registry would fall over it Would the traffic that the register was would be received will be too much to handle, right? So it would fall over. It would it would become overwhelmed, right? And it would pretty much none of us. The doctors will be able to get any information out of it because you'll be too overwhelmed to traffic will be too much and all for love. And I think maybe some of you have seen this before when Twitter's an amazing example. Back in the day, Teo used to get that whale, and it would be like toe to toe fallen over because the traffic was just too much. Now what you can and also back in the data. If you tweeted too much in a certain amount of time, you're like into a job, and you couldn't see anything for like an hour or something. And that's part of that rat. Now, if you add a rate limit, right two, the birth certificate registry. What you're saying is, Okay, Lola, you can make five requests every five seconds taller. You can make five requests every five seconds. Adam, you can make five requests every five seconds, and that is something that that developers or whoever would decide is a good enough amount where everyone will still be able to get their information and get the information quickly. Without making the birth certificate register, you fall over. I hope that makes sense. And so I guess the rate limit is the equivalent ofthe Twitter saying you're going into swear jar because you've done this too many times, right? So when the right when you've hit the limit, something should be a method should be given to you like, Hey, you've hit the limit. So, like, take a break for a little while before you try and request anything from this app or before you try and do anything with this app, right? So it's basically a way to say is basically a way of saying we don't I don't want my out to fall over, but I still want my users to be ableto get the information they need in a timely manner by the one and to abuse that. So I'm gonna put a limit on the limit. Should be fair to both sides. It should be fair to the user's. Where is like, okay, this makes sense, and it should be fair to the AP. Where's like, Okay, I'm not gonna fall over for this. So why do we do this apart from it fallen over. But this is also a really good way to prevent DDOS attacks. And I'm not going to get into too much detail about what DDOS attacks are. That probably be another episode. But essentially, Adidas attack is just like loads of it is. You know, it's a pre meditated, premeditated attack, but it's basically send in loads of traffic Tio Apel or a site, or somewhere and get in the sacks off all over intentionally. So really rate limiting access a safety measure to prevent DDOS attacks and primarily to present to prevent the app from season toe work in Russia. So, yeah, that is right limiting that is lost in the source. Please follow us on Soundcloud. Follow us on Twitter at Lost in the source Will spotify lost in the source? Daniel, you arcs for us to be on Google podcast and I'm happy to say we are on a Google podcasts as well. I'm not sure how, though I need to figure out how good podcast gets podcast information because I did and upload podcasts of Google podcast. I have a feeling like maybe they search. They get index from, like soundcloud and spotify and maybe other places, too, and somehow did that way I'm not sure how they did, but we aren't Google podcasts. If there are any other platforms that you want us to be apart off, we're No, please let us know. I say us. It's me. Let me know. Hit me upon Two are lost in the source on DH. Yes. Tell a friend to tell a friend and I will see you next time.)
