---
title: will_robots_take_my_job
blog: podcast
published: true
date: 2019-01-29 23:58:24
duration: 00:26:10
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/will_robots_take_my_job.mp3
---
<div class="row">
<audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/will_robots_take_my_job.mp3' class="col-md-12">
      Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
    </audio>
</div>
Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (we'll worry about still your job. Probably if we're being totally honest. Hello and welcome to lost in the source. I am your host Lalla and we are back for episode for I literally just got back from America earlier this week on DH I Part of me is like I wish I was still there because I had so much fun. But my friend sent me videos off the snow. That happened a few days after I left. And it's like minus 12 degrees Celsius out there right now. So I am not complaining too much. I'm happy to be home, happy to be back in my own space. My own house on DH. Yeah, this year is looking really, really exciting, so I'm kind of excited for the year ahead. If you've listened to my other podcast, you'll know that I'm doing this whole contract. Anything at the moment, I've got blackguard tech and there's gonna be some major news coming up about black Arctic in the next few weeks. Um, I'm not going to say too much about it, but it's gonna be major on DH. Yeah, I'm just kind of excited for the year. I'm excited for this episode, this episode is gonna be about automation. We've seen, you know, stuff about machine learning. A. I. You know, we've gone to the supermarkets and realise that there's a way more self checkout, self checkout stations rather than you know, the regular checkup stations with the service. With the service behind the till, we've seen McDonald's and other fast food places have more self checkout and self service staff. And, you know, we're seeing more and more more and more instances off machines doing jobs that were used to seeing humans doing. And that's all part of automation. And it's something I'm quite interested in. It's not something I'm an expert in, or I know loads and loads, and there's about because I do not. But I'd be reading. I've been listening. I've been watching a lot of stuff about it on DSO. That's what we're gonna talk about in our main topic today. And then in the source, we are gonna look at the difference between machine learning on artificial intelligence, the two I used interchangeably, but they're not actually the same thing. So we're gonna look at what's the difference between artificial intelligence on machine learning. So yeah, let's get straight into it. Comforts on DH, Ease of access on DH. You know, doing things quickly, in my opinion, is human nature. Like from the dawn of time, we have found we have taken a task and we have found ways to make that task easier and easier and easier and easier on We see that you know, we were originally like the human species were farmers. Everybody was like, Ah, hunter or gatherer on DH. Then you're going to like culture and stuff like that and was all about farming. Yeah, How can we get food? How can we sustain ourselves? And then we kind of like, you know, realise that farming is difficult. Farming is hard. How can we make this easier? How can we make this quicker for ourselves? And really, that is what automation is. Automation is being able to make things easier and quicker to produce the same or better results on DH. So, as I say, we've seen this in farming industry like from dawn of man, you know, till now and then from when we stop being when innovation happened in our culture, we saw it. We saw your transitions of factories and then innovation happenings, factories, and we saw a transition to service industries. The innovation happened in service industries, and then we kind of like in the in the kind of post service industry stage right where we see innovation happening in service industries. That's what's happening right now on. We see automation really taken a major role on the difference is this time that in the past all the automation that's happened and all the innovation that has happened has also created more jobs than the population. So people were able to transition from farmers and, you know, because I was becoming more automated and other things other things were happening. Like, you know, if you introduced machines, you know, people need to know how to build those machines. People need to know howto operate those machines. People need to know how to maintain those machines. Jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs on those jobs usually happen in factories. You have a bunch of factories, you know, and playing a bunch of people, and then, you know when, for example, take the car industry when cars were introduced that, you know, provided so many more jobs because again, you need people who know we're gonna have to build, maintain, fix, drive. And you know all these other things. So you have jobs that are created either directly or indirectly, because the car was invented on the amount of jobs that were created was like in proportion to the population growth. So it wasn't really a problem. It was like, in fact, a welcome thing, because the more jobs you create, the more people can consume it, as we know, were like in a consumerist society, especially if you're in the West. If you're in the U. K in the U. S. You know, the Western society is consumer based. It's all about how can you consume? That's how our economic he's run, thrive and survive. Right? So it's all about how much you can consume. You can only consume if you have money to consume and the the most. I want to say the best. But I guess thie quote unquote best way to get money to consume isto, have a job. So you know, creating new jobs is an amazing thing for the economy, and it's an amazing thing for the individual and individuals are able to live on DH. Innovation has in the past always come with creating jobs. However, as innovation continues on as automation continues, less and less jobs are being created. If you compare the one of the biggest car manufacturers, General Motors, who, by the way, I went to their side note, I when I was in Detroit, Detroit's like the automotive city or whatever on my friend works for General Motors on DH. I went to there like offices, but it's in a public building. Is there anyone can go and then it's a really, really beautiful building inside and stuff, and they have amariyah inside the building. They have a Starbucks inside a bit and bunch of restaurants inside a building. But it's general like General Motors owns the building. They have a bank, have a CVS. They make it really easy to not have to leave if you didn't want to, and if you could afford to stay there, especially the hotel inside the building, you could just like I don't know if you have a late night at work, you could guess crash at the hotel in, just like walk two minutes to office in the morning. It's weird. But anyway, they also had this, like Museum of cars, like they're old cars. And I was actually quite nice to look at how far we've come. And then they had this kind of light show room off their newer cars and, you know, stuff. And it was it was nice. But anyway, if you take General Motors and you compare that to one of the biggest tech companies, you know alive Google, the amount of jobs that General Motors created versus the amount ofthe jobs that Google created is staggering. I don't have the numbers, and I should have got the numbers, but staggering in terms of difference. Google has not created nearly as many jobs as General Moses has created, which you can say Google hasn't been around for nearly the same amount of time General Motors has been around. However, they have been able to not create as many jobs, not hire as many people, but make way more money in a less amount of time. And I think that's the kind of I don't say issue. But that's the thing, right? So new companies, especially tech companies on companies that are forward in the push for automation are able to make a lot more money of a lot less people. And so Oder companies, more established companies are also going down that route because it's cheaper. Tio, you know, use machines on maintain machines than it is to have people on. You are able to, you know, cut your costs and make a lot of money as well. And we see this happening. I think the best place we see this happening right now is at the lower level jobs such as, you know, fast food jobs, such a supermarket jobs especially handy. You, Cathy and those were the best two places where you really see this happening. And I think that's part ofthe the problem where the jobs that are going immediately our jobs, where you would have working class people or poor people working in them anyway. And so where McDonald's has like five points where you can, um, where you can, you know, buy your food or whatever. That's less people they need behind the till. Some people argue that this means those same people can be used for other things in the in the restaurant. So, like serving your food directly to the table and stuff like that. But if we're being realistic, I mean in a fast food place, don't go so fast. You place to have your food served to you at the table. Right on. Even if that's the case, how many servers do they need? So I think that's kind of like Khun B all up for debate. But something that's interesting that I found interesting is that the first jobs to go or to be automated, our jobs where people where people you know are more likely to be struggling for money on for jobs anyway. And if jobs are being created at nearly the same rates, then there's nothing for those people to move into or the things that those people could move into very, very limited and very few. And now, apart from that, too, the question arises. Can machines do the job as well as a human could do the drug on, although is, you know, service industry jobs that we see mainly being automated at the moment? Other types of jobs are also being automated. More specialist jobs, more skilled jobs. On DSO, the question does arise like cannon machine actually do, for example, the job off a doctor as well as a doctor could do the job of a doctor? Not shall know. They probably can't. However, machines are really, really good at doing one thing and one thing well, So when we see machines being used in factories to, for example, make a car, there is one machine, that nose to put the car bonnet on the car and knows exactly where to put it on. That machine knows that thing. And it does that sing very well, very quickly, more efficient than a human who knows how to put a whole car together. And so when you have multiple machines working together to do that thing, it's a quick process is very quick. And so being able to build a car's a human, I mean becomes redundant because the machine could do that. Ah, group of machines. Khun do that very quickly, very efficiently, right? And where we see that happening today is s I watched the video by I never know how to pronounce them because because Scott, I'm going to put them in the description of this video. But they do really, really really interesting, informative videos and these, like animations and stuff. And it's just really cool to watch their back bite size with Jos. And they have one on automation, and they use an example off a San Francisco, you know, company, right? They use a production of production am project management software. Yeah, which eliminates the need for any project. Managers on what the project management software does is it comes in on it analyses what tasks can be automated versus what task can't be automated. And all the task that can't be automated that can be automated, identifies them. And then, you know, those people are gone, and they're all the tasks that can't be automated. It learns, So it gets, you know, it. It tracks what the people in those positions are doing. Or, you know, you say bunny, we're going to get freelancers to do those jobs, and then it tracks what those freelancers is doing, how long it takes those freelancers to do it and essentially teaches itself in gathers. All that data create visualises relationships between the data on it learns how to do those things on. Really, When you look at it like what the vigil was saying is that when you look at it, complex tasks are really just single tasks or group together. So something that is complex is when you break it down. It's really just a group off simple tasks. Simple, well defined tasks on DH. That's what machines are good at. And so for machine can isolate the simple task that's needed for this complex operation and isolate all of those simple tasks. Then it's going to either be ableto you know you're you're able to Then either sign, you know, multiple machines, simple task or one machine is able to learn that. Okay, this simple, complex task this simple task goes first, this simple task Oh, second, this simple task go stud to create a whole complex situation and, like, you know, built out situation and stuff. So it is. I mean, it can be scary when you think about it. Anything that my job is an engineer could be gone within the next 10 years or become automated within the next 10 years. But I do think that this is the time our governments need to really start thinking about preparing for the future in which less jobs are created on more automation is happening. I don't think automation is a bad thing. I think that automation is a necessary thing in a lot of fields. Um, but I also think that in a consumer society where Bach ofthe economy relies on us, spending money is unrealistic. Then, Teo, you know, seal this automation happening on expect that without putting things in place that you know what's through. Our economies will still grow in the way they need to grow. Now. One thing that has been proposed is universal basic income on this is an idea that I am totally on board. Um has been trialled. I don't want to say child cause hasn't been child like proper, proper proper, but variations of it have been tried in certain countries. I think like Finland and some of the more Nordic countries on guy think I don't know, say Australia, but definitely some of the more Nordic countries definitely tried this on universal basic income is the idea that everybody, just by virtue of being alive, gets an amount of money, a set amount ofthe money. Just by virtue of being a life, everybody gets its not minimum wage because you don't have the work for it. Um, I guess it is comparable to benefit socially us a welfare system. But it's basically a set amount of money, and there are debates on what that amount of money should be. Some people say the amount of money should be, you know, enough to live in a country So that minimum wage, right? Everyone gets minimum wage. You have. You have a job, you don't have a drop. Everyone has that as a starting point on DH can then, you know, pay for things and, you know, do what they need to do. And it takes pressure off of people working menial jobs and, you know, rubbish jobs and stuff like that. Other people argue the amount of money you get should be like her. You know, middle class living, you know, cushy society, relaxing amount ofthe money where you're not stressing about anything on. I mean, we've never done that before, So would that mean that you know, people are motivated to work anymore? People are motivated, Tio. You know the disgusting jobs like being in the sewers and, you know, making sure garbage is collected and stuff like that. Who will do their job? Because no one wants to view those jobs anyway, right? Um I don't know, Like, I think it's interesting. I think, um, if automation is happening anyway, so, like, leave that those jobs who would like the jobs that nobody wants to do? You will be automated. So I'm not even sure that's a valued kind of, you know, who would do those jobless like? Well, if automation is happening, you know, garbage collection will be automated. Sewer maintenance will be automated, but something said these cuts could guard people also did a vigil Universal basic income on something that was raised there is that it will actually give people who do those jobs more leverage to say, If you want me to do these jobs, you have to pay me more. You have to make sure the conditions in which I work are much better. Like it would give them leverage to demand better care for themselves as they work those disgusting jobs. Because real entry, they should be paid more. They're doing really disgusting things, like nobody wants to do that. So it shouldn't be a minimum page job, right? So this kind of that kind of. You know, what happens if everyone's living amid across life, but on a more basic level does the fact that everyone you know has a basic level of income? Just because you're alive, I think, is the thing that needs to be trialled out in more places because we need the data. We need to know how this would work. What's the best way to make this work off course? It's going to be people's taxes that pay for this. But you know, at the end of the day, it's like for a net good so that our economies don't suffer on crumble and so that there isn't. You know, there'll still be a kind of like wealth gap between rich and poor. But the bigger the wider that gap is, the worse it is for our economies, anyway, you know, And if more people are able to spend money as I said earlier in the show, then it just, you know, means better things all over. So I think you know, that's kind of like the main thing about automation. Machines are getting better at doing human jobs on DH. We need to prepare for what happens when they went. You know, when jobs are becoming I mean, jobs already scarce, like jobs have jobs have stopped growing at the rate the population grows for, like, 34 years now. So we need to actually be thinking about how do we do with this? And I don't think not automating is an option on I don't think not automating is the answer either. I think we actually need to think outside of the box and look at things that you'd be I and other other things that come position ourselves so that we don't crumble. And I mean, it's likely the end of the world is gonna happen soon especially, you know, climate change and other things. But, you know, let's try and make our society is a better living place for everyone. I don't know. That is my thoughts. So, yeah, that's the main topic on automation. Let's get into the source. One thing I forgot to add in the last years that looking at cars is a really, really, really good way Tio sea Or in fact, looking at transport in general is a really, really so I'm just gonna move my water because it's fizzy. And I think the bubbles on the microphone looking at causes a really, really good way to see how automation has changed over like the millennia. Because when you look at how, um, we assume how many jobs were created through the introduction of a horse and carriage, you know, now you're breathing, you're creating carriages, you're creating bills, more jobs, you know, and stuff like that. Maintaining carriages and stuff like that and then you have the invention of a car, which is a huge deal, is a big thing on that created, um, that created jobs directly and indirectly, as I said earlier on in the podcast. And then we look at how cars are moving to self driving cars, which reduces the amount of jobs created on, also makes other judge redundant completely right on DH. It's just a really nice It's a really nice kind of I don't know, metaphor image if you want to kind of really understand how automation is different this time, how innovation is different this time around on, as I said, the cursed Cassard, I'm not saying that correctly, but the customers out video that I watched on this topic amuses other examples as well. And it's about 15 minutes long and really, really good video. But yet enough about that. Let's get into the source. So today we're looking at artificial intelligence and machine learning. What is the difference between the two? Well, as I said, this is not my domain. So I did have to Google on DH. What I found is that artificial intelligence is kind of like the overall war bag that everything kind of fits into. So I think that robotics Fitz's artificial intelligence machine learning fits into artificial intelligence like or your smart products bit into artificial intelligence. But it's basically, um, the concept ofthe and machine being able to do things that we would consider quote unquote smart. So that's what artificial intelligence is. An A machine. Learning is a very specific bit of a I that is all about machines being able to learn themselves and teach themselves. And so I explained earlier in the podcast as, um, a machine gathering data seem relationships in that data on being able to then teach itself about that on work based off the new thing. It taught itself So a good place to see this is through Internet adverts. When you buy something on the Internet, Data's connected about what you buy on date is built up about who you are, what you're interested in. And so then that adverts you see are related to things either that you've bought without your you searched about that the machine thinks you are interested in. And it's all based around what you click, what you buy, what you search for. The machine is noticing relationships and patterns and then able to feed that data back to you in the more you click, the more you search, the more you buy, the more than machine learns and is able tto even Teyla make adverts specifically for you. And if you click X on an advert, that is also the machines also learning from this. If you dismiss an advert, the machine is learning from that too. Okay, you're not interested in distinct, but you're interested in that thing, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So, yeah, that's what machine learning is. And that's what eyes they are different. But machine learning is part ofthe eh? But not everything. That's a is machine learning If that makes it so. That is it for today's episode. I hope you enjoyed it. I will be back in another two weeks. I am considering making these episodes weekly, but I really depends if I have enough topics to talk about. If you do have anything you want me to talk about, if you have questions about anything code related, engineering related, let me know. Or just general tech questions, let me know at Lost in the source on Twitter on DH, I will hopefully be able to answer them. And if not, I'll be able to point you in the right direction. Hopefully. So, yeah, thanks for listening and see you next time.)
