---
title: your_coding_toolbox
blog: podcast
published: true
date: 2017-02-13 13:23:48
duration: 00:20:25
description:
audio_link: https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/your_coding_toolbox.mp3
---
<div class="row">
    <audio controls src='https://lits-podcast-episodes.s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/audio/your_coding_toolbox.mp3' class="col-md-12">
          Your browser does not support the <code>audio</code> element.
        </audio>
</div>
Transcript unavailable

[//]: # (you know, the Mister Crabs mean off him, like with the spinny background. That's what learning how to code. It's like it's mister crabs mean Hello and welcome to lost in the source. I should probably say Happy New Year because you haven't had a podcast for me in about a month or just over a month. And for that I'm sorry, but basically I've just been trying to lay the foundation for black girl cheque and make sure everything is amazing and perfect, and it's looking like it is going to be an amazing year. So I'm really excited about that. But I am back basically back in business, and we're going to be talking about coding today and this tour's you need. So this episode is called the Toolbox, and this is a series I'm going to do. I don't know how many episodes in the cities there gonna be a should probably, like, planned up. I didn't S o. This is Episode one in this E v e's one ofthe X on. I'm just going to be talking about the different tools you can use to learn how to code on just what all if it means I found that when I was learning how to code, everything was great fun, fantastic as long as I was on co academy and as long as somebody was holding my hand along the way. As soon as I left co academy, everything hit the fan and it just became super maze like, you know that Mr Crabs mean of him, like with the spinny background. That's what learning how to code. It's like once you stepped off like academy. It's mister crabs mean, um, so I'm just going to go through a few things that I think will be useful to know and understand when you're like embarking on this journey and your initially starting out. So let's get started. So the Internet, I would say, is the biggest resource you have. The Internet is an amazing place, amazing and scary and creepy, but mostly amazing, a cz long as you stay within certain rooms of it on DH. There's just so much out there like a lot of the questions. You probably have somebody. His arcs, they're already on DH has gotten an answer for already, so it's definitely good for, you know, reassuring that you're not alone in this, but also really good for getting answers. And so I would start if you never learned how. If you've never gone into code and before, I would definitely start with code academy. I spoken about co academy before on other podcast because I just think it's so amazing on hey, IFCO Academy, one response is lost in the source. Just get at me in for that blackguard dot tech and we can talk. But, yeah, Cho academy is just a really good place for if you've never, ever let how If you've never, ever coded before and just need, like, more handheld step by step, this is what this is. This is what this is. This is what this is kind of process and they have so many languages. So I would recommend starting with html css and then, you know, going over to Jarvis scripts and then trying your hand at, like, SQL, which is more for databases or ruby, which is more that programming and the back end or python, which is similar to Ruby or whatever other languages they have. They literally have so many, and they now have, like, a paid option. They have a free option on the paid option. I haven't tried out there paid option yet, but I know that they're free. Option is really good for just whetting your appetite. If you find that you know things are going really evolve Car academy free. I guess you could you could pay. Another paid option is Tree House who do more like projects on they have, like projects for inter media and an advanced on beginners. And it's a similar kind of thing, but is paid and you get like, a free trial for I don't know, it's either two weeks on one month I can't remember. But yes, ah ko Academy and Tree house is definitely good for like if you've just started academies specifically because they have the free option and you know you don't, like immediately commits to something you're not sure you're going to enjoy or even like so if you know you don't co Academy of Country House and you kind of wanna level up a bit Sorry, I would recommend something that code wass now code wass is more about programming on DH. It's more I would recommend it for like if you're more than intermediate to just practise programming skills. I'm sure they have, like stuff or hitched in Marcia's says to You can basically pick her language. But really, it's more about problem solving and understanding problems on DH. How do we figure out the solutions to these problems and what's the best way? And you basically it's like a game. So you basically get points for each problem that you solve, and you can start a really basic level and just like work your way up. I've done a few code wass problems before, and yet it's It's really nice because you can kind of see the issues and the questions is like a four room, and you can see where other people are kind of fun in it. Difficult and you know, that kind of things, a sense of community as you're not doing it alone. But it's not his hand held is something like Code Academy on if you want to go like more advanced, there's a site called Project Oiler. Now Project Oil is a list ofthe like thousands and thousands off maths problems, Orlova mass problems but like programming problems. And the idea is that you don't you can solve the problem in whatever language you want, but you don't do on the side. So all these other websites is like you do the problem within the site and you can you know that this is how you do it. But with project oily, you take the problem and you do it locally on your machine so you don't need the Internet to solve the problem. Really, you just need the programming language on DH. This's definitely for more people who have done hates him. Outdone CSS on either run, too, like JavaScript or ruby or Python, basically languages that are programming languages, not just front end languages. That hasty Marcy SS on DSO Project Oiler is basically again problem solving. How do we find the solution to this problem in the best way? And once you you can basically go back to project the project or al Assad and submit your answer and then see what other people how other people have answered on you? What you basically fan is loads of people. I also think the same question, different ways, and that's the amazing thing. But also kind of downside about programming is that there are so many answers, so many right answers. For one question, Andi also depends on the languages you use and all of that. So I would recommend Project Oiler. If you're more comfortable of programming languages at any level, whether you're beginning into media advance but just more comfortable programming languages rather than if you just started doing hasty Marcy SS because put it oil, it can be a bit overwhelming. On the same of code was I would recommend code was, if you're more comfortable of programming languages rather than if you just kind of started into Cody in full stop. So those are like that online resources I would definitely recommend Project Oiler is also good for if you're preparing for code in tests, Um, if you ah, doing those of code in tears Project oil are basically sometimes you're sometimes co tests come from projects or a lot. I've seen protests that have been from Project Oil, and I've done cotis that have been formed project owner, but also it puts you in that mind frame, as I said before, problem solving. So those are the anonymous sources. Our definitely linked all of them in the description below and I'll probably put a block post up with Just linked all these things and what they are, etcetera. So you've done put academy, you've had a blast, and you're like, You know what? I want to take this to the next level on guy. Want to do things locally? There are two things that that you will need to code locally on your machine. The first thing is a text editor. Most laptops, computers come with a text editor already. So if you own a Windows machine, that will probably be something like notes pad. If you wanna mak like myself, that would probably be something that text edit a text editor basically allows you to write text without formatting. So word on Microsoft office and all these things allow you to type things up. But they are so heavily formatted things like the italics your quotation marks, the fact that you can have, like, different fronts. All of that on the like system level is do nodes are formatting to present it in a certain way to the user. All of that formatting, if you're too like chance burrows into code, which you screw your code up the most common one I've seen is quotation marks or apostrophes, where it's like stylised inward, and you copy that over under the programme. Who does? Trying to understand the code doesn't understand what these fancy quotation marks are because they need it without all the formatting on DSO. That's what text editor allows you to just type written like plain text. That's basically what you need to type in your code in plain text text edit, and I had our good starting points. But honestly, Max Sublime, which is also Text Editor, which can download online for free, is what has really changed the game for me and just make things so much easier because sublime has, like syntax, highlighting If you're new to coding, you may not know that every language has difference in tax, similar to like spoken languages, anyway. Like, you know, the way the French speakers, not the way the English speak. We have different syntax, different ways to write things the same of programming languages. There are different ways to write things on DH, so what sublime gives you is syntax highlighting, which is basically colour coded ways, or showing you that you're writing the right thing. You're not making mistakes as you write on. It highlights those mistakes. If you do make thumb, which is amazing for coding, because the smallest mistake and code can just have the biggest repercussions and just crashed your site. That's not what you want. So sublime, I think, is an amazing text editor that you should definitely look into Get in if you want to move off of co academy. But if you just wanna use text edit and your final season text said it, that's also fine, like there's nothing wrong with using text at it at all or no pad. The other thing you need if you're doing something more locally, is at the terminal. So the terminal is probably the most like, bewildering thing that when people see this, when people who don't code see the terminal, it's like, Oh my gosh, what the heck is this? It looks like it looks like the matrix screen, you know, with all the green front, like going up and down the screen on all of that kind of like computer Saifi kind of stuff. That's what it looks like. However, the terminal is just so innocent. It's not scary. There's nothing to it. It doesn't do anything unless you tell it to do anything. Really. The terminal is essentially the back end version off my computer, if you on a Mac or finder. If you wanna sorry my computer from a Windows machine or find out if you're on a Mac, it is just a way to access files and to run commands. Now the more you go into coding, the more you understand what it means to run commands and code. Ketamine, when you're learning, has called. There's a button that says Run, and it runs what you've written to present what you expect on DH. That's essentially what you be doing in the terminal. Running commands and telling the terminal to either move files or move fouls or create files or put or these files in a folder. Put this photo here creating forwarders, Things like that, essentially the things you can do in my computer or find out you can do it in the terminal. The reason why you'd want to do it in the terminal is because it's a lot easier to do in the terminal. It's a lot quicker to find things in the terminals a lot quicker, too. Moved between 1000 folders than it is in Finder and also the terminal. You be able to track changes through something called version control on DH version. Control is not something I'm going to dive into in this podcast, but definitely for the next tool box episode will be looking at version control on what that means on DH, why you should use it. But the terminal allows you to do, um, stuff Rene into all that kind of stuff on DH. If you're on Mac a good term like again Windows, Mac, whatever mission you're on comes with a standard terminal, but I use something. Could I term to? I'm not sure if they have one for Windows, but they definitely have one for Mac on DH again. It's just nice to use. It just is prettier to use colour coding or this kind of stuff is just It's just nicer. Honestly, I don't think there's too much of Ah um, a big jump between the standard terminal that comes of your machine or I term, but I just prefer use an item on a lot of these tools. It's really down to preference. Nothing is gospel. Nothing is like, Oh my gosh, you have to use this thing. Use what you're comfortable with. Don't be swayed by what you know. The community of the majority are saying court, and finally, we have the operating system. So I have been saying a lot. You know that there's a distinct for Max. There's distinct for Windows, and basically the reason for that is that Windows and Mac and the 3rd 1 which is Lennox Ah, respond to code in different ways. And so there are some languages that are much easier to code on Mac than on Windows or Linux than on Windows Mac and Net Lennox. Use a kind of operating system that's off the Unix family, and Windows doesn't do that. So there are some languages, such as Ruby, which are much easier to teo use on max on Lenox machines. If you've never heard of what Lennox machine is, don't worry about it. Lennox machines air, usually just used by like the people who are super super, super into it and just like wanna build an operating system themselves, basically is basically a super stripped down version, often operating system you get the basics? Um, but most people use Max on or Windows, as in most General people's Maxwell windows. So, yeah, there's just certain languages behave better on different operating systems on DH. I know for myself, I've always used the Mac even before I started coding. So it's just the easiest thing to use for me personally, but also the language I code in with Predominant, which is Ruby. Um, just works better on a Mac machine, you know. But if your code in their language like DOT Net that would probably work better on a Windows machine really depends on the language on are definitely encourage you to explore and cheque out online. What's what. Operating systems are best for the kind of language is you on a code in. But also Lennox is probably the best operating system, regardless because it's it's so bare. Bones on DH. It just takes to most things, but again definitely research it, and it's definitely dependent on the language. We're going to be predominantly Cody. The good thing is, if you're going to stick to hit Timberline CSS, it doesn't matter like you can Code hasty Mencius says pretty comfortably on any machine as long as you have a text editor. That and that's it for hey html CSS websites. That's all you need a text editor. So don't worry too much about operating systems if that's where you're kind of staying for now, and that's pretty much it. So this is tool box number one, and I think just for initially getting into coding or like transitioning from beginner to intermediate kindof, these are the tools you can. I need these of the stuff that you are need to build and progress and just have something to show for. You're working for your portfolio and understanding operating systems to kind of know what to decide on next and how to make the next decisions. And the kind of language is you're going to programming intestine out trialling and stuff like that. So I hope has been useful for you guys. And if you have any questions, do hit me upon Tuta at Lost in the Source or email info at blackguard dot tech, and I'll be I'll be so like happy to answer them either on the podcast or via the channels in which you've contacted me. Cool. So before I go, I have a few announcements to make. The first is we are for the whole of February. We are going to be doing B g t hidden figures hashtag GT hidden figures, which is basically us. Just show him black women in stem who have done amazing things. And it's also to celebrate the release ofthe the film Hidden figures in the U. K. Oh, and so far we have been doing stuff on instagram on Twitter and on Facebook. You could just see these amazing black women who have who just flushing in their field or who have flourished in their filled from, you know, computers and mathematicians and biochemist and not a call technologist and all sorts off women across the field across the world. Or the only requirement is that she's black and she's in stem. So follow us on. Twitter at Black, our tech on on lost in the source at Lost in the Source for what we've been doing on B g t hidden figures hashtag GT hidden figures. We also have a workshop coming up in February on virtual reality. So in January we had three workshops to hate him on CSS workshops on one salary negotiation workshop with Tribe this month. We have one of virtual reality where we will be doing an introductory session into via what Israel was about. And how can you know you get into it. What the tools you can use to get into Viane understand? Br um, I'm finally, as I said before, if you have any questions, feel free to email. Infer that blackguard dot tech with the subject lost in the source, then I can answer your questions either on the podcast or via email, and follow us on Twitter at Lost in the Source.)
